record came from, the offset of the record within the partition, and, of course,
the key and the value of the record. Typically, we want to iterate over the list and
process the records individually.
Processing usually ends in writing a result in a data store or updating a stored
record. Here, the goal is to keep a running count of customers from each country,
86 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 116 ===
so we update a hash table and print the result as JSON. A more realistic example
would store the updates result in a data store.
The poll loop does a lot more than just get data. The first time you call poll() with a
new consumer, it is responsible for finding the GroupCoordinator, joining the con‐
sumer group, and receiving a partition assignment. If a rebalance is triggered, it will
be handled inside the poll loop as well, including related callbacks. This means that
almost everything that can go wrong with a consumer or in the callbacks used in its
listeners is likely to show up as an exception thrown by poll().
Keep in mind that if poll() is not invoked for longer than max.poll.interval.ms,
the consumer will be considered dead and evicted from the consumer group, so avoid
doing anything that can block for unpredictable intervals inside the poll loop.
Thread Safety
Y ou can’t have multiple consumers that belong to the same group in one thread, and
you can’t have multiple threads safely use the same consumer. One consumer per
thread is the rule. To run multiple consumers in the same group in one application,
you will need to run each in its own thread. It is useful to wrap the consumer logic in
its own object and then use Java’s ExecutorService to start multiple threads, each
with its own consumer. The Confluent blog has a tutorial that shows how to do just
that.
In older versions of Kafka, the full method signature was
poll(long); this signature is now deprecated and the new API is
poll(Duration). In addition to the change of argument type, the
semantics of how the method blocks subtly changed. The original
method, poll(long), will block as long as it takes to get the needed
metadata from Kafka, even if this is longer than the timeout dura‐
tion. The new method, poll(Duration), will adhere to the timeout
restrictions and not wait for metadata. If you have existing con‐
sumer code that uses poll(0) as a method to force Kafka to get the
metadata without consuming any records (a rather common hack),
you can’t just change it to poll(Duration.ofMillis(0)) and
expect the same behavior. Y ou’ll need to figure out a new way to
achieve your goals. Often the solution is placing the logic in the
rebalanceListener.onPartitionAssignment() method, which is
guaranteed to get called after you have metadata for the assigned
partitions but before records start arriving. Another solution was
documented by Jesse Anderson in his blog post “Kafka’s Got a
Brand-New Poll”.
The Poll Loop | 87

=== PAGE 117 ===
Another approach can be to have one consumer populate a queue of events and have
multiple worker threads perform work from this queue. Y ou can see an example of
this pattern in a blog post from Igor Buzatović.
Configuring Consumers
So far we have focused on learning the Consumer API, but we’ve only looked at a few
of the configuration properties—just the mandatory bootstrap.servers, group.id,
key.deserializer, and value.deserializer. All of the consumer configuration is
documented in the Apache Kafka documentation. Most of the parameters have rea‐
sonable defaults and do not require modification, but some have implications on the
performance and availability of the consumers. Let’s take a look at some of the more
important properties.
fetch.min.bytes
This property allows a consumer to specify the minimum amount of data that it
wants to receive from the broker when fetching records, by default one byte. If a
broker receives a request for records from a consumer but the new records amount to
fewer bytes than fetch.min.bytes, the broker will wait until more messages are
available before sending the records back to the consumer. This reduces the load on
both the consumer and the broker, as they have to handle fewer back-and-forth mes‐
sages in cases where the topics don’t have much new activity (or for lower-activity
hours of the day). Y ou will want to set this parameter higher than the default if the
consumer is using too much CPU when there isn’t much data available, or reduce
load on the brokers when you have a large number of consumers—although keep in
mind that increasing this value can increase latency for low-throughput cases.
fetch.max.wait.ms
By setting fetch.min.bytes, you tell Kafka to wait until it has enough data to send
before responding to the consumer. fetch.max.wait.ms lets you control how long to
wait. By default, Kafka will wait up to 500 ms. This results in up to 500 ms of extra
latency in case there is not enough data flowing to the Kafka topic to satisfy the mini‐
mum amount of data to return. If you want to limit the potential latency (usually due
to SLAs controlling the maximum latency of the application), you can set
fetch.max.wait.ms to a lower value. If you set fetch.max.wait.ms to 100 ms and
fetch.min.bytes to 1 MB, Kafka will receive a fetch request from the consumer and
will respond with data either when it has 1 MB of data to return or after 100 ms,
whichever happens first.
88 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 118 ===
fetch.max.bytes
This property lets you specify the maximum bytes that Kafka will return whenever
the consumer polls a broker (50 MB by default). It is used to limit the size of memory
that the consumer will use to store data that was returned from the server, irrespec‐
tive of how many partitions or messages were returned. Note that records are sent to
the client in batches, and if the first record-batch that the broker has to send exceeds
this size, the batch will be sent and the limit will be ignored. This guarantees that the
consumer can continue making progress. It’s worth noting that there is a matching
broker configuration that allows the Kafka administrator to limit the maximum fetch
size as well. The broker configuration can be useful because requests for large
amounts of data can result in large reads from disk and long sends over the network,
which can cause contention and increase load on the broker.
max.poll.records
This property controls the maximum number of records that a single call to poll()
will return. Use this to control the amount of data (but not the size of data) your
application will need to process in one iteration of the poll loop.
max.partition.fetch.bytes
This property controls the maximum number of bytes the server will return per parti‐
tion (1 MB by default). When KafkaConsumer.poll() returns ConsumerRecords, the
record object will use at most max.partition.fetch.bytes per partition assigned to
the consumer. Note that controlling memory usage using this configuration can be
quite complex, as you have no control over how many partitions will be included in
the broker response. Therefore, we highly recommend using fetch.max.bytes
instead, unless you have special reasons to try and process similar amounts of data
from each partition.
session.timeout.ms and heartbeat.interval.ms
The amount of time a consumer can be out of contact with the brokers while still
considered alive defaults to 10 seconds. If more than session.timeout.ms passes
without the consumer sending a heartbeat to the group coordinator, it is considered
dead and the group coordinator will trigger a rebalance of the consumer group to
allocate partitions from the dead consumer to the other consumers in the group.  This
property is closely related to heartbeat.interval.ms, which controls how frequently
the Kafka consumer will send a heartbeat to the group coordinator, whereas
session.timeout.ms controls how long a consumer can go without sending a heart‐
beat. Therefore, those two properties are typically modified together— heartbeat.
interval.ms must be lower than session.timeout.ms and is usually set to one-third
Configuring Consumers | 89

=== PAGE 119 ===
of the timeout value. So if session.timeout.ms is 3 seconds, heartbeat.
interval.ms should be 1 second. Setting session.timeout.ms lower than the default
will allow consumer groups to detect and recover from failure sooner but may also
cause unwanted rebalances. Setting session.timeout.ms higher will reduce the
chance of accidental rebalance but also means it will take longer to detect a real
failure.
max.poll.interval.ms
This property lets you set the length of time during which the consumer can go
without polling before it is considered dead. As mentioned earlier, heartbeats and ses‐
sion timeouts are the main mechanism by which Kafka detects dead consumers and
takes their partitions away. However, we also mentioned that heartbeats are sent by a
background thread. There is a possibility that the main thread consuming from Kafka
is deadlocked, but the background thread is still sending heartbeats. This means that
records from partitions owned by this consumer are not being processed. The easiest
way to know whether the consumer is still processing records is to check whether it is
asking for more records. However, the intervals between requests for more records
are difficult to predict and depend on the amount of available data, the type of pro‐
cessing done by the consumer, and sometimes on the latency of additional services.
In applications that need to do time-consuming processing on each record that is
returned, max.poll.records is used to limit the amount of data returned and there‐
fore limit the duration before the application is available to poll() again. Even with
max.poll.records defined, the interval between calls to poll() is difficult to predict,
and max.poll.interval.ms is used as a fail-safe or backstop. It has to be an interval
large enough that it will very rarely be reached by a healthy consumer but low enough
to avoid significant impact from a hanging consumer. The default value is 5 minutes.
When the timeout is hit, the background thread will send a “leave group” request to
let the broker know that the consumer is dead and the group must rebalance, and
then stop sending heartbeats.
default.api.timeout.ms
This is the timeout that will apply to (almost) all API calls made by the consumer
when you don’t specify an explicit timeout while calling the API. The default is 1
minute, and since it is higher than the request timeout default, it will include a retry
when needed. The notable exception to APIs that use this default is the poll()
method that always requires an explicit timeout.
request.timeout.ms
This is the maximum amount of time the consumer will wait for a response from the
broker. If the broker does not respond within this time, the client will assume the
90 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 120 ===
broker will not respond at all, close the connection, and attempt to reconnect. This
configuration defaults to 30 seconds, and it is recommended not to lower it. It is
important to leave the broker with enough time to process the request before giving
up—there is little to gain by resending requests to an already overloaded broker, and
the act of disconnecting and reconnecting adds even more overhead.
auto.offset.reset
This property controls the behavior of the consumer when it starts reading a partition
for which it doesn’t have a committed offset, or if the committed offset it has is inva‐
lid (usually because the consumer was down for so long that the record with that off‐
set was already aged out of the broker). The default is “latest, ” which means that
lacking a valid offset, the consumer will start reading from the newest records
(records that were written after the consumer started running). The alternative is
“earliest, ” which means that lacking a valid offset, the consumer will read all the data
in the partition, starting from the very beginning. Setting auto.offset.reset to none
will cause an exception to be thrown when attempting to consume from an invalid
offset.
enable.auto.commit
This parameter controls whether the consumer will commit offsets automatically, and
defaults to true. Set it to false if you prefer to control when offsets are committed,
which is necessary to minimize duplicates and avoid missing data. If you set
enable.auto.commit to true, then you might also want to control how frequently
offsets will be committed using auto.commit.interval.ms. We’ll discuss the different
options for committing offsets in more depth later in this chapter.
partition.assignment.strategy
We learned that partitions are assigned to consumers in a consumer group. A
PartitionAssignor is a class that, given consumers and topics they subscribed to,
decides which partitions will be assigned to which consumer.  By default, Kafka has
the following assignment strategies:
Range
Assigns to each consumer a consecutive subset of partitions from each topic it
subscribes to. So if consumers C1 and C2 are subscribed to two topics, T1 and
T2, and each of the topics has three partitions, then C1 will be assigned partitions
0 and 1 from topics T1 and T2, while C2 will be assigned partition 2 from those
topics. Because each topic has an uneven number of partitions and the assign‐
ment is done for each topic independently, the first consumer ends up with more
partitions than the second. This happens whenever Range assignment is used and
