or in the brokers themselves, we may still get an exception if the producer
encountered errors before sending the message to Kafka. Those can be, for exam‐
ple, a SerializationException when it fails to serialize the message, a Buffer
ExhaustedException or TimeoutException if the buffer is full, or an
InterruptException if the sending thread was interrupted.
Sending a Message Synchronously
Sending a message synchronously is simple but still allows the producer to catch
exceptions when Kafka responds to the produce request with an error, or when send
retries were exhausted. The main trade-off involved is performance. Depending on
how busy the Kafka cluster is, brokers can take anywhere from 2 ms to a few seconds
to respond to produce requests. If you send messages synchronously, the sending
thread will spend this time waiting and doing nothing else, not even sending
additional messages. This leads to very poor performance, and as a result,
52 | Chapter 3: Kafka Producers: Writing Messages to Kafka

=== PAGE 82 ===
synchronous sends are usually not used in production applications (but are very
common in code examples).
The simplest way to send a message synchronously is as follows:
ProducerRecord<String, String> record =
    new ProducerRecord<>("CustomerCountry", "Precision Products", "France");
try {
    producer.send(record).get(); 
} catch (Exception e) {
    e.printStackTrace(); 
}
Here, we are using Future.get() to wait for a reply from Kafka. This method
will throw an exception if the record is not sent successfully to Kafka. If there
were no errors, we will get a RecordMetadata object that we can use to retrieve
the offset the message was written to and other metadata.
If there were any errors before or while sending the record to Kafka, we will
encounter an exception. In this case, we just print any exception we ran into.
KafkaProducer has two types of errors. Retriable errors are those that can be resolved
by sending the message again. For example, a connection error can be resolved
because the connection may get reestablished. A “not leader for partition” error can
be resolved when a new leader is elected for the partition and the client metadata is
refreshed. KafkaProducer can be configured to retry those errors automatically, so
the application code will get retriable exceptions only when the number of retries was
exhausted and the error was not resolved. Some errors will not be resolved by retry‐
ing—for example, “Message size too large. ” In those cases, KafkaProducer will not
attempt a retry and will return the exception immediately.
Sending a Message Asynchronously
Suppose the network round-trip time between our application and the Kafka cluster
is 10 ms. If we wait for a reply after sending each message, sending 100 messages will
take around 1 second. On the other hand, if we just send all our messages and not
wait for any replies, then sending 100 messages will barely take any time at all. In
most cases, we really don’t need a reply—Kafka sends back the topic, partition, and
offset of the record after it was written, which is usually not required by the sending
app. On the other hand, we do need to know when we failed to send a message com‐
pletely so we can throw an exception, log an error, or perhaps write the message to an
“errors” file for later analysis.
To send messages asynchronously and still handle error scenarios, the producer sup‐
ports adding a callback when sending a record. Here is an example of how we use a
callback:
Sending a Message to Kafka | 53

=== PAGE 83 ===
private class DemoProducerCallback implements Callback { 
    @Override
    public void onCompletion(RecordMetadata recordMetadata, Exception e) {
        if (e != null) {
            e.printStackTrace(); 
        }
    }
}
ProducerRecord<String, String> record =
    new ProducerRecord<>("CustomerCountry", "Biomedical Materials", "USA"); 
producer.send(record, new DemoProducerCallback()); 
To use callbacks, you need a class that implements the org.apache.kafka.
clients.producer.Callback interface, which has a single function— on
Completion().
If Kafka returned an error, onCompletion() will have a nonnull exception. Here
we “handle” it by printing, but production code will probably have more robust
error handling functions.
The records are the same as before.
And we pass a Callback object along when sending the record.
The callbacks execute in the producer’s main thread. This guaran‐
tees that when we send two messages to the same partition one
after another, their callbacks will be executed in the same order that
we sent them. But it also means that the callback should be reason‐
ably fast to avoid delaying the producer and preventing other mes‐
sages from being sent. It is not recommended to perform a
blocking operation within the callback. Instead, you should use
another thread to perform any blocking operation concurrently.
Configuring Producers
So far we’ve seen very few configuration parameters for the producers—just the
mandatory bootstrap.servers URI and serializers.
The producer has a large number of configuration parameters that are documented
in Apache Kafka documentation , and many have reasonable defaults, so there is no
reason to tinker with every single parameter. However, some of the parameters have a
significant impact on memory use, performance, and reliability of the producers. We
will review those here.
54 | Chapter 3: Kafka Producers: Writing Messages to Kafka

=== PAGE 84 ===
client.id
client.id is a logical identifier for the client and the application it is used in.  This
can be any string and will be used by the brokers to identify messages sent from the
client. It is used in logging and metrics and for quotas. Choosing a good client name
will make troubleshooting much easier—it is the difference between “We are seeing a
high rate of authentication failures from IP 104.27.155.134” and “Looks like the
Order Validation service is failing to authenticate—can you ask Laura to take a look?”
acks
The acks parameter controls how many partition replicas must receive the record
before the producer can consider the write successful. By default, Kafka will respond
that the record was written successfully after the leader received the record (release
3.0 of Apache Kafka is expected to change this default). This option has a significant
impact on the durability of written messages, and depending on your use case, the
default may not be the best choice. Chapter 7 discusses Kafka’s reliability guarantees
in depth, but for now let’s review the three allowed values for the acks parameter:
acks=0
The producer will not wait for a reply from the broker before assuming the mes‐
sage was sent successfully. This means that if something goes wrong and the
broker does not receive the message, the producer will not know about it, and the
message will be lost. However, because the producer is not waiting for any
response from the server, it can send messages as fast as the network will support,
so this setting can be used to achieve very high throughput.
acks=1
The producer will receive a success response from the broker the moment the
leader replica receives the message. If the message can’t be written to the leader
(e.g., if the leader crashed and a new leader was not elected yet), the producer will
receive an error response and can retry sending the message, avoiding potential
loss of data. The message can still get lost if the leader crashes and the latest mes‐
sages were not yet replicated to the new leader.
acks=all
The producer will receive a success response from the broker once all in sync
replicas receive the message. This is the safest mode since you can make sure
more than one broker has the message and that the message will survive even in
case of a crash (more information on this in Chapter 6). However, the latency we
discussed in the acks=1 case will be even higher, since we will be waiting for
more than just one broker to receive the message.
Configuring Producers | 55

=== PAGE 85 ===
1 Image contributed to the Apache Kafka project by Sumant Tambe under the ASLv2 license terms.
Y ou will see that with lower and less reliable acks configuration,
the producer will be able to send records faster. This means that
you trade off reliability for producer latency. However, end-to-end
latency is measured from the time a record was produced until it is
available for consumers to read and is identical for all three
options. The reason is that, in order to maintain consistency, Kafka
will not allow consumers to read records until they are written to
all in sync replicas. Therefore, if you care about end-to-end latency,
rather than just the producer latency, there is no trade-off to make:
you will get the same end-to-end latency if you choose the most
reliable option.
Message Delivery Time
The producer has multiple configuration parameters that interact to control one of
the behaviors that are of most interest to developers: how long will it take until a call
to send() will succeed or fail. This is the time we are willing to spend until Kafka
responds successfully, or until we are willing to give up and admit defeat.
The configurations and their behaviors were modified several times over the years.
We will describe here the latest implementation, introduced in Apache Kafka 2.1.
Since Apache Kafka 2.1, we divide the time spent sending a ProduceRecord into two
time intervals that are handled separately:
• Time until an async call to send() returns. During this interval, the thread that
called send() will be blocked.
• From the time an async call to send() returned successfully until the callback is
triggered (with success or failure). This is the same as from the point a Produce
Record was placed in a batch for sending until Kafka responds with success, non‐
retriable failure, or we run out of time allocated for sending.
If you use send() synchronously, the sending thread will block for
both time intervals continuously, and you won’t be able to tell how
much time was spent in each. We’ll discuss the common and rec‐
ommended case, where send() is used asynchronously, with a
callback.
The flow of data within the producer and how the different configuration parameters
affect each other can be summarized in Figure 3-2.1
56 | Chapter 3: Kafka Producers: Writing Messages to Kafka

=== PAGE 86 ===
Figure 3-2. Sequence diagram of delivery time breakdown inside Kafka producer
We’ll go through the different configuration parameters used to control the time
spent waiting in these two intervals and how they interact.
max.block.ms
This parameter controls how long the producer may block when calling send() and
when explicitly requesting metadata via partitionsFor(). Those methods may block
when the producer’s send buffer is full or when metadata is not available. When
max.block.ms is reached, a timeout exception is thrown.
delivery.timeout.ms
This configuration will limit the amount of time spent from the point a record is
ready for sending (send() returned successfully and the record is placed in a batch)
until either the broker responds or the client gives up, including time spent on retries.
As you can see in Figure 3-2 , this time should be greater than linger.ms and
request.timeout.ms. If you try to create a producer with an inconsistent timeout
configuration, you will get an exception. Messages can be successfully sent much
faster than delivery.timeout.ms, and typically will.
If the producer exceeds delivery.timeout.ms while retrying, the callback will be
called with the exception that corresponds to the error that the broker returned
before retrying. If delivery.timeout.ms is exceeded while the record batch was still
waiting to be sent, the callback will be called with a timeout exception.
Configuring Producers | 57

=== PAGE 87 ===
Y ou can configure the delivery timeout to the maximum time you’ll
want to wait for a message to be sent, typically a few minutes, and
then leave the default number of retries (virtually infinite). With
this configuration, the producer will keep retrying for as long as it
has time to keep trying (or until it succeeds). This is a much more
reasonable way to think about retries. Our normal process for tun‐
