that has left it running but not functional. Moving the controller in these situations
does not normally have a high risk, but as it is not a normal task, it should not be
performed regularly.
To forcibly move a controller, deleting the ZooKeeper znode at /admin/controller
manually will cause the current controller to resign, and the cluster will randomly
select a new controller. There is currently no way to specify a specific broker to be
controller in Apache Kafka.
Removing Topics to Be Deleted
When attempting to delete a topic in Kafka, a ZooKeeper node requests that the dele‐
tion is created. Once every replica completes deletion of the topic and acknowledges
deletion is complete, the znode will be removed. Under normal circumstances, this is
executed by the cluster very quickly. However, sometimes things can go wrong with
this process. Here are some scenarios in which a deletion request may become stuck:
1. A requester has no way of knowing whether topic deletion is enabled in the clus‐
ter and can request deletion of a topic from a cluster in which deletion is
disabled.
2. A very large topic is requested to be deleted, but before the request is handled,
one or more of the replica sets goes offline due to hardware failures, and the dele‐
tion cannot complete as the controller cannot ack that the deletion was comple‐
ted successfully.
To “unstick” topic deletion, first delete the /admin/delete_topic/<topic> znode. Delet‐
ing the topic ZooKeeper nodes (but not the parent /admin/delete_topic node) will
remove the pending requests. If the deletion is re-queued by cached requests in the
controller, it may be necessary to also forcibly move the controller as shown earlier
immediately after removing the topic znode to ensure that no cached requests are
pending in the controller.
Deleting Topics Manually
If you are running a cluster with delete topics disabled, or if you find yourself needing
to delete some topics outside of the normal flow of operations, it is possible to man‐
ually delete them from the cluster. This requires a full shutdown of all brokers in the
336 | Chapter 12: Administering Kafka

=== PAGE 366 ===
cluster, however, and cannot be done while any of the brokers in the cluster are
running.
Shut Down Brokers First
Modifying the cluster metadata in ZooKeeper when the cluster is
online is a very dangerous operation and can put the cluster into an
unstable state. Never attempt to delete or modify topic metadata in
ZooKeeper while the cluster is online.
To delete a topic from the cluster:
1. Shut down all brokers in the cluster.
2. Remove the ZooKeeper path /brokers/topics/<topic> from the Kafka cluster path.
Note that this node has child nodes that must be deleted first.
3. Remove the partition directories from the log directories on each broker. These
will be named <topic>-<int>, where <int> is the partition ID.
4. Restart all brokers.
Summary
Running a Kafka cluster can be a daunting endeavor, with numerous configurations
and maintenance tasks to keep the systems running at peak performance. In this
chapter, we discussed many of the routine tasks, such as managing topic and client
configurations, that you will need to handle frequently. We also covered some of the
more esoteric tasks that you’ll need for debugging problems, like examining log seg‐
ments. Finally, we covered a few of the operations that, while not safe or routine, can
be used to get you out of a sticky situation. All together, these tools will help you to
manage your Kafka cluster. As you begin to scale your Kafka clusters larger, even the
use of these tools may become arduous and difficult to manage. It is highly recom‐
mended to engage with the open source Kafka community and take advantage of the
many other open source projects in the ecosystem to help automate many of the tasks
outlined in this chapter.
Now that we are confident in the tools needed to administer and manage our cluster,
it is still impossible without proper monitoring in place. Chapter 13 will discuss ways
to monitor broker and cluster health and operations so you can be sure Kafka is
working well (and know when it isn’t). We will also offer best practices for monitor‐
ing your clients, including both producers and consumers.
Summary | 337

=== PAGE 368 ===
CHAPTER 13
Monitoring Kafka
The Apache Kafka applications have numerous measurements for their operation—
so many, in fact, that it can easily become confusing as to what is important to watch
and what can be set aside. These range from simple metrics about the overall rate of
traffic, to detailed timing metrics for every request type, to per-topic and per-
partition metrics. They provide a detailed view into every operation in the broker, but
they can also make you the bane of whoever is responsible for managing your moni‐
toring system.
This chapter will detail the most critical metrics to monitor all the time and how to
respond to them. We’ll also describe some of the more important metrics to have on
hand when debugging problems. This is not an exhaustive list of the metrics that are
available, however, because the list changes frequently, and many will only be infor‐
mative to a hard-core Kafka developer.
Metric Basics
Before getting into the specific metrics provided by the Kafka broker  and clients, let’s
discuss the basics of how to monitor Java applications and some best practices around
monitoring and alerting. This will provide a basis for understanding how to monitor
the applications and why the specific metrics described later in this chapter have been
chosen as the most important.
Where Are the Metrics?
All of the metrics exposed by Kafka can be accessed via the Java Management Exten‐
sions (JMX) interface. The easiest way to use them in an external monitoring system
is to use a collection agent provided by your monitoring system and attach it to the
Kafka process. This may be a separate process that runs on the system and connects
339

=== PAGE 369 ===
to the JMX interface, such as with the Nagios XI check_jmx plug-in or jmxtrans. Y ou
can also utilize a JMX agent that runs directly in the Kafka process to access metrics
via an HTTP connection, such as Jolokia or MX4J.
An in-depth discussion of how to set up monitoring agents is outside the scope of
this chapter, and there are far too many choices to do justice to all of them. If your
organization does not currently have experience with monitoring Java applications, it
may be worthwhile to instead consider monitoring as a service. There are many com‐
panies that offer monitoring agents, metrics collection points, storage, graphing, and
alerting in a services package. They can assist you further with setting up the moni‐
toring agents required.
Finding the JMX Port
To aid with configuring applications that connect to JMX on the
Kafka broker directly, such as monitoring systems, the broker sets
the configured JMX port in the broker information that is stored in
ZooKeeper. The /brokers/ids/<ID> znode contains JSON-
formatted data for the broker, including hostname and jmx_port
keys. However, it should be noted that remote JMX is disabled by
default in Kafka for security reasons. If you are going to enable it,
you must properly configure security for the port. This is because
JMX not only allows a view into the state of the application, it also
allows code execution. It is highly recommended that you use a
JMX metrics agent that is loaded into the application.
Nonapplication metrics
Not all metrics will come from Kafka itself. There are five general groupings of where
you can get your metrics from. Table 13-1 describes the categories when we are moni‐
toring the Kafka brokers.
Table 13-1. Metric sources
Category Description
Application
metrics
These are the metrics you get from Kafka itself, from the JMX interface.
Logs Another type of monitoring data that comes from Kafka itself. Because it is some form of text or
structured data, and not just a number, it requires a little more processing.
Infrastructure
metrics
These metrics come from systems that you have in front of Kafka but are still within the request path and
under your control. An example is a load balancer.
Synthetic clients This is data from tools that are external to your Kafka deployment, just like a client, but are under your
direct control and are typically not performing the same work as your clients. An external monitor like
Kafka Monitor falls in this category.
Client metrics These are metrics that are exposed by the Kafka clients that connect to your cluster.
340 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 370 ===
Logs generated by Kafka are discussed later in this chapter, as are client metrics. We
will also touch very briefly on synthetic metrics. Infrastructure metrics, however, are
dependent on your specific environment and are outside the scope of the discussion
here. The further along in your Kafka journey you are, the more important these met‐
ric sources will be to fully understanding how your applications are running, as the
lower in the list, the more objective a view of Kafka they provide. For example, rely‐
ing on metrics from your brokers will suffice at the start, but later on you will want a
more objective view of how they are performing. A familiar example for the value of
objective measurements is monitoring the health of a website. The web server is run‐
ning properly, and all of the metrics it is reporting say that it is working. However,
there is a problem with the network between your web server and your external
users, which means that none of your users can reach the web server. A synthetic cli‐
ent that is running outside your network and checks the accessibility of the website
would detect this and alert you to the situation.
What Metrics Do I Need?
The specific metrics that are important to you is a question that is nearly as loaded as
what the best editor to use is. It will depend significantly on what you intend to do
with them, what tools you have available for collecting data, how far along in using
Kafka you are, and how much time you have available to spend on building infra‐
structure around Kafka. A broker internals developer will have far different needs
than a site reliability engineer who is running a Kafka deployment.
Alerting or debugging?
The first question you should ask yourself is whether or not your primary goal is to
alert you when there is a problem with Kafka, or to debug problems that happen.  The
answer will usually involve a little of both, but knowing whether a metric is for one or
the other will allow you to treat it differently once it is collected.
A metric that is destined for alerting is useful for a very short period of time—typi‐
cally, not much longer than the amount of time it takes to respond to a problem. Y ou
can measure this on the order of hours, or maybe days. These metrics will be con‐
sumed by automation that responds to known problems for you, as well as the human
operators in cases where automation does not exist yet. It is usually important for
these metrics to be more objective, as a problem that does not impact clients is far less
critical than one that does.
Data that is primarily for debugging has a longer time horizon because you are fre‐
quently diagnosing problems that have existed for some time, or taking a deeper look
at a more complex problem. This data will need to remain available for days or weeks
past when it is collected. It is also usually going to be more subjective measurements,
or data from the Kafka application itself. Keep in mind that it is not always necessary
Metric Basics | 341

=== PAGE 371 ===
to collect this data into a monitoring system. If the metrics are used for debugging
problems in place, it is sufficient that the metrics are available when needed. Y ou do
not need to overwhelm the monitoring system by collecting tens of thousands of val‐
ues on an ongoing basis.
Historical Metrics
There is a third type of data that you will need eventually, and that
is historical data on your application. The most common use for
historical data is for capacity management purposes, and so it
includes information about resources used, including compute
resources, storage, and network. These metrics will need to be
stored for a very long period of time, measured in years. Y ou also
may need to collect additional metadata to put the metrics into
context, such as when brokers were added to or removed from the
cluster.
Automation or humans?
Another question to consider is who the consumer of the metrics will be. If the met‐
rics are consumed by automation, they should be very specific.  It’s OK to have a large
number of metrics, each describing small details, because this is why computers exist:
to process a lot of data. The more specific the data is, the easier it is to create automa‐
