254 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 284 ===
MirrorMaker metrics monitoring
In addition to metrics from Connect, MirrorMaker adds metrics to monitor mir‐
roring throughput and replication latency. The replication latency metric
replication-latency-ms shows the time interval between the record timestamp
and the time at which the record was successfully produced to the target cluster.
This is useful to detect if the target is not keeping up with the source in a timely
manner. Increased latency during peak hours may be OK if there is sufficient
capacity to catch up later, but sustained increase in latency may indicate insuffi‐
cient capacity. Other metrics like record-age-ms, which shows the age of records
at the time of replication, byte-rate, which shows replication throughout, and
checkpoint-latency-ms, which shows offset migration latency, can also be very
useful. MirrorMaker also emits periodic heartbeats by default, which can be used
to monitor its health.
Lag monitoring
Y ou will definitely want to know if the target cluster is falling behind the source.
The lag is the difference in offsets between the latest message in the source Kafka
cluster and the latest message in the target cluster. See Figure 10-7.
Figure 10-7. Monitoring the lag difference in offsets
In Figure 10-7, the last offset in the source cluster is 7, and the last offset in the
target is 5—meaning there is a lag of 2 messages.
There are two ways to track this lag, and neither is perfect:
• Check the latest offset committed by MirrorMaker to the source Kafka clus‐
ter. Y ou can use the kafka-consumer-groups tool to check for each partition
MirrorMaker is reading— the offset of the last event in the partition, the last
offset MirrorMaker committed, and the lag between them. This indicator is
not 100% accurate because MirrorMaker doesn’t commit offsets all the time.
It commits offsets every minute by default, so you will see the lag grow for a
minute and then suddenly drop. In the diagram, the real lag is 2, but the
kafka-consumer-groups tool will report a lag of 5 because MirrorMaker
Apache Kafka’s MirrorMaker | 255

=== PAGE 285 ===
hasn’t committed offsets for more recent messages yet. LinkedIn’s Burrow
monitors the same information but has a more sophisticated method to
determine whether the lag represents a real problem, so you won’t get false
alerts.
• Check the latest offset read by MirrorMaker (even if it isn’t committed). The
consumers embedded in MirrorMaker publish key metrics in JMX. One of
them is the consumer maximum lag (over all the partitions it is consuming).
This lag is also not 100% accurate because it is updated based on what the
consumer read but doesn’t take into account whether the producer managed
to send those messages to the destination Kafka cluster and whether they
were acknowledged successfully. In this example, the MirrorMaker con‐
sumer will report a lag of 1 message rather than 2, because it already read
message 6—even though the message wasn’t produced to the destination yet.
Note that if MirrorMaker skips or drops messages, neither method will detect an
issue because they just track the latest offset. Confluent Control Center is a com‐
mercial tool that monitors message counts and checksums and closes this moni‐
toring gap.
Producer and consumer metrics monitoring
The Kafka Connect framework used by MirrorMaker contains a producer and a
consumer. Both have many available metrics, and we recommend collecting and
tracking them. The Kafka documentation lists all the available metrics. Here are a
few metrics that are useful in tuning MirrorMaker performance:
Consumer
fetch-size-avg, fetch-size-max, fetch-rate, fetch-throttle-time-avg,
and fetch-throttle-time-max
Producer
batch-size-avg, batch-size-max, requests-in-flight, and record-
retry-rate
Both
io-ratio and io-wait-ratio
Canary
If you monitor everything else, a canary isn’t strictly necessary, but we like to add
it in for multiple layers of monitoring. It provides a process that, every minute,
sends an event to a special topic in the source cluster and tries to read the event
from the destination cluster. It also alerts you if the event takes more than an
acceptable amount of time to arrive. This can mean that MirrorMaker is lagging
or that it isn’t available at all.
256 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 286 ===
Tuning MirrorMaker
MirrorMaker is horizontally scalable. Sizing of the MirrorMaker cluster depends on
the throughput you need and the lag you can tolerate. If you can’t tolerate any lag,
you have to size MirrorMaker with enough capacity to keep up with your top
throughput. If you can tolerate some lag, you can size MirrorMaker to be 75–80% uti‐
lized 95–99% of the time. Then, expect some lag to develop when you are at peak
throughput. Because MirrorMaker has spare capacity most of the time, it will catch
up once the peak is over.
Then you want to measure the throughput you get from MirrorMaker with a differ‐
ent number of connector tasks—configured with the tasks.max parameter. This
depends a lot on your hardware, datacenter, or cloud provider, so you will want to
run your own tests. Kafka ships with the kafka-performance-producer tool. Use it to
generate load on a source cluster and then connect MirrorMaker and start mirroring
this load. Test MirrorMaker with 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 24, and 32 tasks. Watch where perfor‐
mance tapers off and set tasks.max just below this point. If you are consuming or
producing compressed events (recommended, since bandwidth is the main bottle‐
neck for cross-datacenter mirroring), MirrorMaker will have to decompress and
recompress the events. This uses a lot of CPU, so keep an eye on CPU utilization as
you increase the number of tasks. Using this process, you will find the maximum
throughput you can get with a single MirrorMaker worker. If it is not enough, you
will want to experiment with additional workers. If you are running MirrorMaker on
an existing Connect cluster with other connectors, make sure you also take the load
from those connectors into account when sizing the cluster.
In addition, you may want to separate sensitive topics—those that absolutely require
low latency and where the mirror must be as close to the source as possible—to a sep‐
arate MirrorMaker cluster. This will prevent a bloated topic or an out-of-control pro‐
ducer from slowing down your most sensitive data pipeline.
This is pretty much all the tuning you can do to MirrorMaker itself. However, you
can still increase the throughput of each task and each MirrorMaker worker.
If you are running MirrorMaker across datacenters, tuning the TCP stack can help to
increase the effective bandwidth. In Chapters 3 and 4, we saw that TCP buffer sizes
can be configured for producers and consumers using send.buffer.bytes and
receive.buffer.bytes. Similarly, broker-side buffer sizes can be configured using
socket.send.buffer.bytes and socket.receive.buffer.bytes on brokers.  These
configuration options should be combined with optimization of the network configu‐
ration in Linux, as follows:
Apache Kafka’s MirrorMaker | 257

=== PAGE 287 ===
• Increase the TCP buffer size ( net.core.rmem_default, net.core.rmem_max,
net.core.wmem_default, net.core.wmem_max, and net.core.optmem_max)
• Enable automatic window scaling (sysctl –w net.ipv4.tcp_window_scaling=1
or add net.ipv4.tcp_window_scaling=1 to /etc/sysctl.conf)
• Reduce the TCP slow start time (set /proc/sys/net/ipv4/tcp_slow_
start_after_idle to 0)
Note that tuning the Linux network is a large and complex topic. To understand more
about these parameters and others, we recommend reading a network tuning guide
such as Performance Tuning for Linux Servers by Sandra K. Johnson et al. (IBM Press).
In addition, you may want to tune the underlying producers and consumers of Mir‐
rorMaker. First, you will want decide whether the producer or the consumer is the
bottleneck—is the producer waiting for the consumer to bring more data or the other
way around? One way to decide is to look at the producer and consumer metrics you
are monitoring. If one process is idle while the other is fully utilized, you know which
one needs tuning. Another method is to do several thread dumps (using jstack) and
see if the MirrorMaker threads are spending most of the time in poll or in send—
more time spent polling usually means the consumer is the bottleneck, while more
time spent sending shift points to the producer.
If you need to tune the producer, the following configuration settings can be useful:
linger.ms and batch.size
If your monitoring shows that the producer consistently sends partially empty
batches (i.e., batch-size-avg and batch-size-max metrics are lower than con‐
figured batch.size), you can increase throughput by introducing a bit of latency.
Increase linger.ms and the producer will wait a few milliseconds for the batches
to fill up before sending them. If you are sending full batches and have memory
to spare, you can increase batch.size and send larger batches.
max.in.flight.requests.per.connection
Limiting the number of in-flight requests to 1 is currently the only way for Mir‐
rorMaker to guarantee that message ordering is preserved if some messages
require multiple retries before they are successfully acknowledged. But this
means every request that was sent by the producer has to be acknowledged by the
target cluster before the next message is sent. This can limit throughput, espe‐
cially if there is significant latency before the brokers acknowledge the messages.
If message order is not critical for your use case, using the default value of 5 for
max.in.flight.requests.per.connection can significantly increase your
throughput.
The following consumer configurations can increase throughput for the consumer:
258 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 288 ===
fetch.max.bytes
If the metrics you are collecting show that fetch-size-avg and fetch-size-max
are close to the fetch.max.bytes configuration, the consumer is reading as
much data from the broker as it is allowed. If you have available memory, try
increasing fetch.max.bytes to allow the consumer to read more data in each
request.
fetch.min.bytes and fetch.max.wait.ms
If you see in the consumer metrics that fetch-rate is high, the consumer is
sending too many requests to the brokers and not receiving enough data in each
request. Try increasing both fetch.min.bytes and fetch.max.wait.ms so the
consumer will receive more data in each request and the broker will wait until
enough data is available before responding to the consumer request.
Other Cross-Cluster Mirroring Solutions
We looked in depth at MirrorMaker because this mirroring software arrives as part of
Apache Kafka. However, MirrorMaker also has some limitations when used in prac‐
tice. It is worthwhile to look at some of the alternatives to MirrorMaker and the ways
they address MirrorMaker limitations and complexities. We describe a couple of open
source solutions from Uber and LinkedIn and commercial solutions from Confluent.
Uber uReplicator
Uber ran legacy MirrorMaker at very large scale, and as the number of topics and
partitions grew and the cluster throughput increased, it started running into several
problems. As we saw earlier, the legacy MirrorMaker used consumers that were
members of a single consumer group to consume from source topics. Adding Mirror‐
Maker threads, adding MirrorMaker instances, bouncing MirrorMaker instances, or
even adding new topics that match the regular expression used in the inclusion filter
all caused consumers to rebalance. As we saw in Chapter 4, rebalancing stops all the
consumers until new partitions can be assigned to each consumer. With a very large
number of topics and partitions, this can take a while. This is especially true when
using old consumers like Uber did. In some cases, this caused 5–10 minutes of inac‐
tivity, causing mirroring to fall behind and accumulate a large backlog of events to
mirror, which can take a long time to recover from. This caused very high latency for
consumers reading events from the destination cluster. To avoid rebalances when
someone added a topic matching the topic inclusion filter, Uber decided to maintain
a list of exact topic names to mirror instead of using a regular expression filter. But
this was hard to maintain as all MirrorMaker instances had to be reconfigured and
bounced to add a new topic. If not done correctly, this could result in endless rebalan‐
ces as the consumers won’t be able to agree on the topics they subscribe to.
Other Cross-Cluster Mirroring Solutions | 259

=== PAGE 289 ===
Given these issues, Uber decided to write its own MirrorMaker clone, called
uReplicator. Uber decided to use Apache Helix as a central (but highly available)
controller to manage the topic list and the partitions assigned to each uReplicator
instance. Administrators use a REST API to add new topics to the list in Helix, and
uReplicator is responsible for assigning partitions to the different consumers. To ach‐
ieve this, Uber replaced the Kafka consumers used in MirrorMaker with a Kafka con‐
