the data further down the pipe. If the person who built the pipeline between Mon‐
goDB and MySQL decided to filter certain events or remove fields from records, all
the users and applications who access the data in MySQL will only have access to par‐
tial data. If they require access to the missing fields, the pipeline needs to be rebuilt,
and historical data will require reprocessing (assuming it is available).
ELT stands for Extract-Load-Transform and means that the data pipeline does only
minimal transformation (mostly around data type conversion), with the goal of mak‐
ing sure the data that arrives at the target is as similar as possible to the source data.
In these systems, the target system collects “raw data” and all required processing is
done at the target system. The benefit here is that the system provides maximum flex‐
ibility to users of the target system, since they have access to all the data. These sys‐
tems also tend to be easier to troubleshoot since all data processing is limited to one
system rather than split between the pipeline and additional applications. The draw‐
back is that the transformations take CPU and storage resources at the target system.
In some cases, these systems are expensive and there is strong motivation to move
computation off those systems when possible.
Kafka Connect includes the Single Message Transformation feature, which trans‐
forms records while they are being copied from a source to Kafka, or from Kafka to a
target. This includes routing messages to different topics, filtering messages, chang‐
ing data types, redacting specific fields, and more. More complex transformations
that involve joins and aggregations are typically done using Kafka Streams, and we
will explore those in detail in a separate chapter.
Considerations When Building Data Pipelines | 207

=== PAGE 237 ===
When building an ETL system with Kafka, keep in mind that Kafka
allows you to build one-to-many pipelines, where the source data
is written to Kafka once and then consumed by multiple applica‐
tions and written to multiple target systems. Some preprocessing
and cleanup is expected, such as standardizing timestamps and
data types, adding lineage, and perhaps removing personal
information—transformations that will benefit all consumers of the
data. But don’t prematurely clean and optimize the data on ingest
because it might be needed less refined elsewhere.
Security
Security should always be a concern. In terms of data pipelines, the main security
concerns are usually:
• Who has access to the data that is ingested into Kafka?
• Can we make sure the data going through the pipe is encrypted? This is mainly a
concern for data pipelines that cross datacenter boundaries.
• Who is allowed to make modifications to the pipelines?
• If the data pipeline needs to read or write from access-controlled locations, can it
authenticate properly?
• Is our PII (Personally Identifiable Information) handling compliant with laws
and regulations regarding its storage, access and use?
Kafka allows encrypting data on the wire, as it is piped from sources to Kafka and
from Kafka to sinks. It also supports authentication (via SASL) and authorization—so
you can be sure that if a topic contains sensitive information, it can’t be piped into
less secured systems by someone unauthorized. Kafka also provides an audit log to
track access—unauthorized and authorized. With some extra coding, it is also possi‐
ble to track where the events in each topic came from and who modified them, so you
can provide the entire lineage for each record.
Kafka security is discussed in detail in Chapter 11. However, Kafka Connect and its
connectors need to be able to connect to, and authenticate with, external data sys‐
tems, and configuration of connectors will include credentials for authenticating with
external data systems.
These days it is not recommended to store credentials in configuration files, since this
means that the configuration files have to be handled with extra care and have restric‐
ted access. A common solution is to use an external secret management system such
as HashiCorp Vault. Kafka Connect includes support for external secret configura‐
tion. Apache Kafka only includes the framework that allows introduction of plugga‐
ble external config providers, an example provider that reads configuration from a
208 | Chapter 9: Building Data Pipelines

=== PAGE 238 ===
file, and there are community-developed external config providers that integrate with
Vault, AWS, and Azure.
Failure Handling
Assuming that all data will be perfect all the time is dangerous.  It is important to plan
for failure handling in advance. Can we prevent faulty records from ever making it
into the pipeline? Can we recover from records that cannot be parsed? Can bad
records get fixed (perhaps by a human) and reprocessed? What if the bad event looks
exactly like a normal event and you only discover the problem a few days later?
Because Kafka can be configured to store all events for long periods of time, it is pos‐
sible to go back in time and recover from errors when needed. This also allows
replaying the events stored in Kafka to the target system if they were lost.
Coupling and Agility
A desirable characteristic of data pipeline implementation is to decouple the data
sources and data targets. There are multiple ways accidental coupling can happen:
Ad hoc pipelines
Some companies end up building a custom pipeline for each pair of applications
they want to connect. For example, they use Logstash to dump logs to Elastic‐
search, Flume to dump logs to HDFS, Oracle GoldenGate to get data from Oracle
to HDFS, Informatica to get data from MySQL and XML to Oracle, and so on.
This tightly couples the data pipeline to the specific end points and creates a mess
of integration points that requires significant effort to deploy, maintain, and
monitor. It also means that every new system the company adopts will require
building additional pipelines, increasing the cost of adopting new technology,
and inhibiting innovation.
Loss of metadata
If the data pipeline doesn’t preserve schema metadata and does not allow for
schema evolution, you end up tightly coupling the software producing the data at
the source and the software that uses it at the destination.  Without schema infor‐
mation, both software products need to include information on how to parse the
data and interpret it. If data flows from Oracle to HDFS and a DBA added a new
field in Oracle without preserving schema information and allowing schema evo‐
lution, either every app that reads data from HDFS will break or all the develop‐
ers will need to upgrade their applications at the same time. Neither option is
agile. With support for schema evolution in the pipeline, each team can modify
their applications at their own pace without worrying that things will break down
the line.
Considerations When Building Data Pipelines | 209

=== PAGE 239 ===
Extreme processing
As we mentioned when discussing data transformations, some processing of data
is inherent to data pipelines. After all, we are moving data between different sys‐
tems where different data formats make sense and different use cases are sup‐
ported. However, too much processing ties all the downstream systems to
decisions made when building the pipelines about which fields to preserve, how
to aggregate data, etc. This often leads to constant changes to the pipeline as
requirements of downstream applications change, which isn’t agile, efficient, or
safe. The more agile way is to preserve as much of the raw data as possible and
allow downstream apps, including Kafka Streams apps, to make their own deci‐
sions regarding data processing and aggregation.
When to Use Kafka Connect Versus Producer
and Consumer
When writing to Kafka or reading from Kafka, you have the choice between using
traditional producer and consumer clients, as described in Chapters 3 and 4, or using
the Kafka Connect API and the connectors, as we’ll describe in the following sections. 
Before we start diving into the details of Kafka Connect, you may already be wonder‐
ing, “When do I use which?”
As we’ve seen, Kafka clients are clients embedded in your own application. It allows
your application to write data to Kafka or to read data from Kafka. Use Kafka clients
when you can modify the code of the application that you want to connect an appli‐
cation to and when you want to either push data into Kafka or pull data from Kafka.
Y ou will use Connect to connect Kafka to datastores that you did not write and whose
code or APIs you cannot or will not modify. Connect will be used to pull data from
the external datastore into Kafka or push data from Kafka to an external store. To use
Kafka Connect, you need a connector for the datastore to which you want to connect,
and nowadays these connectors are plentiful. This means that in practice, users of
Kafka Connect only need to write configuration files.
If you need to connect Kafka to a datastore and a connector does not exist yet, you
can choose between writing an app using the Kafka clients or the Connect API. Con‐
nect is recommended because it provides out-of-the-box features like configuration
management, offset storage, parallelization, error handling, support for different data
types, and standard management REST APIs. Writing a small app that connects
Kafka to a datastore sounds simple, but there are many little details you will need to
handle concerning data types and configuration that make the task nontrivial. What’s
more, you will need to maintain this pipeline app and document it, and your
teammates will need to learn how to use it. Kafka Connect is a standard part of the
210 | Chapter 9: Building Data Pipelines

=== PAGE 240 ===
Kafka ecosystem, and it handles most of this for you, allowing you to focus on trans‐
porting data to and from the external stores.
Kafka Connect
Kafka Connect is a part of Apache Kafka and provides a scalable and reliable way to
copy data between Kafka and other datastores. It provides APIs and a runtime to
develop and run connector plug-ins—libraries that Kafka Connect executes and that
are responsible for moving the data. Kafka Connect runs as a cluster of worker pro‐
cesses. Y ou install the connector plug-ins on the workers and then use a REST API to
configure and manage connectors, which run with a specific configuration. Connectors
start additional tasks to move large amounts of data in parallel and use the available
resources on the worker nodes more efficiently. Source connector tasks just need to
read data from the source system and provide Connect data objects to the worker
processes. Sink connector tasks get connector data objects from the workers and are
responsible for writing them to the target data system.  Kafka Connect uses convertors
to support storing those data objects in Kafka in different formats—JSON format
support is part of Apache Kafka, and the Confluent Schema Registry provides Avro,
Protobuf, and JSON Schema converters. This allows users to choose the format in
which data is stored in Kafka independent of the connectors they use, as well as how
the schema of the data is handled (if at all).
This chapter cannot possibly get into all the details of Kafka Connect and its many
connectors. This could fill an entire book on its own. We will, however, give an over‐
view of Kafka Connect and how to use it, and point to additional resources for
reference.
Running Kafka Connect
Kafka Connect ships with Apache Kafka, so there is no need to install it separately.
For production use, especially if you are planning to use Connect to move large
amounts of data or run many connectors, you should run Connect on separate
servers from your Kafka brokers. In this case, install Apache Kafka on all the
machines, and simply start the brokers on some servers and start Connect on other
servers.
Starting a Connect worker is very similar to starting a broker—you call the start
script with a properties file:
 bin/connect-distributed.sh config/connect-distributed.properties
There are a few key configurations for Connect workers:
Kafka Connect | 211

=== PAGE 241 ===
bootstrap.servers
A list of Kafka brokers that Connect will work with. Connectors will pipe their
data either to or from those brokers. Y ou don’t need to specify every broker in the
cluster, but it’s recommended to specify at least three.
group.id
All workers with the same group ID are part of the same Connect cluster.  A con‐
nector started on the cluster will run on any worker, and so will its tasks.
plugin.path
Kafka Connect uses a pluggable architecture where connectors, converters, trans‐
formations, and secret providers can be downloaded and added to the platform.
In order to do this, Kafka Connect has to be able to find and load those plug-ins.
We can configure one or more directories as locations where connectors
and their dependencies can be found. For example, we can configure
plugin.path=/opt/connectors,/home/gwenshap/connectors. Inside one of
these directories, we will typically create a subdirectory for each connector, so
in the previous example, we’ll create /opt/connectors/jdbc and /opt/
connectors/elastic. Inside each subdirectory, we’ll place the connector jar itself
and all its dependencies. If the connector ships as an uberJar and has no depen‐
dencies, it can be placed directly in plugin.path and doesn’t require a subdirec‐
