possible.
Indexes
Kafka allows consumers to start fetching messages from any available offset. This
means that if a consumer asks for 1 MB messages starting at offset 100, the broker
must be able to quickly locate the message for offset 100 (which can be in any of the
segments for the partition) and start reading the messages from that offset on. In
order to help brokers quickly locate the message for a given offset, Kafka maintains
an index for each partition. The index maps offsets to segment files and positions
within the file.
Physical Storage | 155

=== PAGE 185 ===
Similarly, Kafka has a second index that maps timestamps to message offsets. This 
index is used when searching for messages by timestamp. Kafka Streams uses this
lookup extensively, and it is also useful in some failover scenarios.
Indexes are also broken into segments, so we can delete old index entries when the
messages are purged. Kafka does not attempt to maintain checksums of the index. If
the index becomes corrupted, it will get regenerated from the matching log segment
simply by rereading the messages and recording the offsets and locations. It is also
completely safe (albeit, it can cause a lengthy recovery) for an administrator to delete
index segments if needed—they will be regenerated automatically.
Compaction
Normally, Kafka will store messages for a set amount of time and purge messages
older than the retention period. However, imagine a case where you use Kafka to
store shipping addresses for your customers. In that case, it makes more sense to
store the last address for each customer rather than data for just the last week or year.
This way, you don’t have to worry about old addresses, and you still retain the address
for customers who haven’t moved in a while. Another use case can be an application
that uses Kafka to store its current state. Every time the state changes, the application
writes the new state into Kafka. When recovering from a crash, the application reads
those messages from Kafka to recover its latest state. In this case, it only cares about
the latest state before the crash, not all the changes that occurred while it was
running.
Kafka supports such use cases by allowing the retention policy on a topic to be delete,
which deletes events older than retention time, or to be compact, which only stores
the most recent value for each key in the topic. Obviously, setting the policy to com‐
pact only makes sense on topics for which applications produce events that contain
both a key and a value. If the topic contains null keys, compaction will fail.
Topics can also have a delete.and.compact policy that combines compaction with a
retention period. Messages older than the retention period will be removed even if
they are the most recent value for a key. This policy prevents compacted topics from
growing overly large and is also used when the business requires removing records
after a certain time period.
How Compaction Works
Each log is viewed as split into two portions (see Figure 6-6):
Clean
Messages that have been compacted before. This section contains only one value
for each key, which is the latest value at the time of the previous compaction.
156 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 186 ===
Dirty
Messages that were written after the last compaction.
Figure 6-6. Partition with clean and dirty portions
If compaction is enabled when Kafka starts (using the awkwardly named
log.cleaner.enabled configuration), each broker will start a compaction manager
thread and a number of compaction threads. These are responsible for performing
the compaction tasks. Each thread chooses the partition with the highest ratio of dirty
messages to total partition size and cleans this partition.
To compact a partition, the cleaner thread reads the dirty section of the partition and
creates an in-memory map. Each map entry is comprised of a 16-byte hash of a mes‐
sage key and the 8-byte offset of the previous message that had this same key. This
means each map entry only uses 24 bytes. If we look at a 1 GB segment and assume
that each message in the segment takes up 1 KB, the segment will contain 1 million
such messages, and we will only need a 24 MB map to compact the segment (we may
need a lot less—if the keys repeat themselves, we will reuse the same hash entries
often and use less memory). This is quite efficient!
When configuring Kafka, the administrator configures how much memory compac‐
tion threads can use for this offset map. Even though each thread has its own map,
the configuration is for total memory across all threads. If you configured 1 GB for
the compaction offset map and you have 5 cleaner threads, each thread will get 200
MB for its own offset map. Kafka doesn’t require the entire dirty section of the parti‐
tion to fit into the size allocated for this map, but at least one full segment has to fit. If
it doesn’t, Kafka will log an error, and the administrator will need to either allocate
more memory for the offset maps or use fewer cleaner threads. If only a few segments
fit, Kafka will start by compacting the oldest segments that fit into the map. The rest
will remain dirty and wait for the next compaction.
Once the cleaner thread builds the offset map, it will start reading off the clean seg‐
ments, starting with the oldest, and check their contents against the offset map. For
each message, it checks if the key of the message exists in the offset map. If the key
does not exist in the map, the value of the message just read is still the latest, and the
message is copied over to a replacement segment. If the key does exist in the map, the
message is omitted because there is a message with an identical key but newer value
later in the partition. Once all the messages that still contain the latest value for their
Physical Storage | 157

=== PAGE 187 ===
key are copied over, the replacement segment is swapped for the original and the
thread on to the next segment. At the end of the process, we are left with one message
per key—the one with the latest value. See Figure 6-7.
Figure 6-7. Partition segment before and after compaction
Deleted Events
If we always keep the latest message for each key, what do we do when we really want
to delete all messages for a specific key, such as if a user left our service and we are
legally obligated to remove all traces of that user from our system?
To delete a key from the system completely, not even saving the last message, the
application must produce a message that contains that key and a null value. When the
cleaner thread finds such a message, it will first do a normal compaction and retain
only the message with the null value. It will keep this special message (known as a
tombstone) around for a configurable amount of time. During this time, consumers
will be able to see this message and know that the value is deleted. So if a consumer
copies data from Kafka to a relational database, it will see the tombstone message and
know to delete the user from the database. After this set amount of time, the cleaner
thread will remove the tombstone message, and the key will be gone from the parti‐
tion in Kafka. It is important to give consumers enough time to see the tombstone
message, because if our consumer was down for a few hours and missed the
tombstone message, it will simply not see the key when consuming and therefore not
know that it was deleted from Kafka or that it needs to be deleted from the database.
It’s worth remembering that Kafka’s admin client also includes a deleteRecords
method. This method deletes all records before a specified offset, and it uses a com‐
pletely different mechanism. When this method is called, Kafka will move the low-
water mark, its record of the first offset of a partition, to the specified offset. This will
prevent consumers from consuming the records below the new low-water mark and
effectively makes these records inaccessible until they get deleted by a cleaner thread.
This method can be used on topics with a retention policy and on compacted topics.
158 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 188 ===
When Are Topics Compacted?
In the same way that the delete policy never deletes the current active segments, the
compact policy never compacts the current segment. Messages are eligible for com‐
paction only on inactive segments.
By default, Kafka will start compacting when 50% of the topic contains dirty records.
The goal is not to compact too often (since compaction can impact the read/write
performance on a topic) but also not to leave too many dirty records around (since
they consume disk space). Wasting 50% of the disk space used by a topic on dirty
records and then compacting them in one go seems like a reasonable trade-off, and it
can be tuned by the administrator.
In addition, administrators can control the timing of compaction with two configura‐
tion parameters:
• min.compaction.lag.ms can be used to guarantee the minimum length of time
that must pass after a message is written before it could be compacted.
• max.compaction.lag.ms can be used to guarantee the maximum delay between
the time a message is written and the time the message becomes eligible for com‐
paction. This configuration is often used in situations where there is a business
reason to guarantee compaction within a certain period; for example, GDPR
requires that certain information will be deleted within 30 days after a request to
delete has been made.
Summary
There is obviously more to Kafka than we could cover in this chapter, but we hope
this gave you a taste of the kind of design decisions and optimizations the Kafka com‐
munity made when working on the project and perhaps explained some of the more
obscure behaviors and configurations you’ve run into while using Kafka.
If you are really interested in Kafka internals, there is no substitute for reading the
code. The Kafka developer mailing list (dev@kafka.apache.org) is a very friendly com‐
munity, and there is always someone willing to answer questions regarding how
Kafka really works. And while you are reading the code, perhaps you can fix a bug or
two—open source projects always welcome contributions.
Summary | 159

=== PAGE 190 ===
CHAPTER 7
Reliable Data Delivery
Reliability is a property of a system—not of a single component—so when we are
talking about the reliability guarantees of Apache Kafka, we will need to keep the
entire system and its use cases in mind.  When it comes to reliability, the systems that
integrate with Kafka are as important as Kafka itself. And because reliability is a sys‐
tem concern, it cannot be the responsibility of just one person. Everyone—Kafka
administrators, Linux administrators, network and storage administrators, and the
application developers—must work together to build a reliable system.
Apache Kafka is very flexible about reliable data delivery. We understand that Kafka
has many use cases, from tracking clicks in a website to credit card payments. Some
of the use cases require utmost reliability, while others prioritize speed and simplicity
over reliability. Kafka was written to be configurable enough, and its client API flexi‐
ble enough, to allow all kinds of reliability trade-offs.
Because of its flexibility, it is also easy to accidentally shoot ourselves in the foot when
using Kafka—believing that our system is reliable when in fact it is not. In this chap‐
ter, we will start by talking about different kinds of reliability and what they mean in
the context of Apache Kafka. Then we will talk about Kafka’s replication mechanism
and how it contributes to the reliability of the system. We will then discuss Kafka’s
brokers and topics and how they should be configured for different use cases. Then
we will discuss the clients, producer, and consumer, and how they should be used in
different reliability scenarios. Last, we will discuss the topic of validating the system
reliability, because it is not enough to believe a system is reliable—the assumption
must be thoroughly tested.
161

=== PAGE 191 ===
Reliability Guarantees
When we talk about reliability, we usually talk in terms of guarantees, which are the
behaviors a system is guaranteed to preserve under different circumstances.
Probably the best-known reliability guarantee is ACID, which is the standard reliabil‐
ity guarantee that relational databases universally support. ACID stands for atomicity,
consistency, isolation, and durability. When a vendor explains that their database is
ACID compliant, it means the database guarantees certain behaviors regarding trans‐
action behavior.
Those guarantees are the reason people trust relational databases with their most crit‐
ical applications—they know exactly what the system promises and how it will behave
in different conditions. They understand the guarantees and can write safe applica‐
tions by relying on those guarantees.
Understanding the guarantees Kafka provides is critical for those seeking to build
reliable applications. This understanding allows the developers of the system to figure
out how it will behave under different failure conditions. So, what does Apache Kafka
guarantee?
• Kafka provides order guarantee of messages in a partition. If message B was writ‐
ten after message A, using the same producer in the same partition, then Kafka
guarantees that the offset of message B will be higher than message A, and that
consumers will read message B after message A.
• Produced messages are considered “committed” when they were written to the
partition on all its in-sync replicas (but not necessarily flushed to disk). Produc‐
