partitions. This represents a single stream of data moving from the producers to the
consumers. This way of referring to messages is most common when discussing
stream processing, which is when frameworks—some of which are Kafka Streams,
Apache Samza, and Storm—operate on the messages in real time. This method of
operation can be compared to the way offline frameworks, namely Hadoop, are
designed to work on bulk data at a later time. An overview of stream processing is
provided in Chapter 14.
Producers and Consumers
Kafka clients are users of the system, and there are two basic types: producers and
consumers. There are also advanced client APIs—Kafka Connect API for data inte‐
gration and Kafka Streams for stream processing. The advanced clients use producers
and consumers as building blocks and provide higher-level functionality on top.
Producers create new messages. In other publish/subscribe systems, these may be
called publishers or writers. A message will be produced to a specific topic. By default,
the producer will balance messages over all partitions of a topic evenly. In some cases,
the producer will direct messages to specific partitions. This is typically done using
the message key and a partitioner that will generate a hash of the key and map it to a
specific partition. This ensures that all messages produced with a given key will get
written to the same partition. The producer could also use a custom partitioner that
6 | Chapter 1: Meet Kafka

=== PAGE 36 ===
follows other business rules for mapping messages to partitions. Producers are cov‐
ered in more detail in Chapter 3.
Consumers read messages. In other publish/subscribe systems, these clients may be
called subscribers or readers. The consumer subscribes to one or more topics and
reads the messages in the order in which they were produced to each partition. The
consumer keeps track of which messages it has already consumed by keeping track of
the offset of messages. The offset—an integer value that continually increases—is
another piece of metadata that Kafka adds to each message as it is produced. Each
message in a given partition has a unique offset, and the following message has a
greater offset (though not necessarily monotonically greater). By storing the next pos‐
sible offset for each partition, typically in Kafka itself, a consumer can stop and
restart without losing its place.
Consumers work as part of a consumer group, which is one or more consumers that
work together to consume a topic. The group ensures that each partition is only con‐
sumed by one member. In Figure 1-6 , there are three consumers in a single group
consuming a topic. Two of the consumers are working from one partition each, while
the third consumer is working from two partitions. The mapping of a consumer to a
partition is often called ownership of the partition by the consumer.
In this way, consumers can horizontally scale to consume topics with a large number
of messages. Additionally, if a single consumer fails, the remaining members of the
group will reassign the partitions being consumed to take over for the missing mem‐
ber. Consumers and consumer groups are discussed in more detail in Chapter 4.
Figure 1-6. A consumer group reading from a topic
Enter Kafka | 7

=== PAGE 37 ===
Brokers and Clusters
A single Kafka server is called a broker. The broker receives messages from producers,
assigns offsets to them, and writes the messages to storage on disk. It also services
consumers, responding to fetch requests for partitions and responding with the
messages that have been published. Depending on the specific hardware and its per‐
formance characteristics, a single broker can easily handle thousands of partitions
and millions of messages per second.
Kafka brokers are designed to operate as part of a cluster. Within a cluster of brokers,
one broker will also function as the cluster controller (elected automatically from the
live members of the cluster). The controller is responsible for administrative opera‐
tions, including assigning partitions to brokers and monitoring for broker failures. A
partition is owned by a single broker in the cluster, and that broker is called the leader
of the partition. A replicated partition (as seen in Figure 1-7) is assigned to additional
brokers, called followers of the partition. Replication provides redundancy of mes‐
sages in the partition, such that one of the followers can take over leadership if there
is a broker failure. All producers must connect to the leader in order to publish mes‐
sages, but consumers may fetch from either the leader or one of the followers. Cluster
operations, including partition replication, are covered in detail in Chapter 7.
Figure 1-7. Replication of partitions in a cluster
A key feature of Apache Kafka is that of retention, which is the durable storage of
messages for some period of time. Kafka brokers are configured with a default reten‐
tion setting for topics, either retaining messages for some period of time (e.g., 7 days)
or until the partition reaches a certain size in bytes (e.g., 1 GB). Once these limits are
reached, messages are expired and deleted. In this way, the retention configuration
8 | Chapter 1: Meet Kafka

=== PAGE 38 ===
defines a minimum amount of data available at any time. Individual topics can also
be configured with their own retention settings so that messages are stored for only as
long as they are useful. For example, a tracking topic might be retained for several
days, whereas application metrics might be retained for only a few hours. Topics can
also be configured as log compacted, which means that Kafka will retain only the last
message produced with a specific key. This can be useful for changelog-type data,
where only the last update is interesting.
Multiple Clusters
As Kafka deployments grow, it is often advantageous to have multiple clusters. There
are several reasons why this can be useful:
• Segregation of types of data
• Isolation for security requirements
• Multiple datacenters (disaster recovery)
When working with multiple datacenters in particular, it is often required that mes‐
sages be copied between them. In this way, online applications can have access to user
activity at both sites. For example, if a user changes public information in their pro‐
file, that change will need to be visible regardless of the datacenter in which search
results are displayed. Or, monitoring data can be collected from many sites into a sin‐
gle central location where the analysis and alerting systems are hosted. The replica‐
tion mechanisms within the Kafka clusters are designed only to work within a single
cluster, not between multiple clusters.
The Kafka project includes a tool called MirrorMaker, used for replicating data to
other clusters. At its core, MirrorMaker is simply a Kafka consumer and producer,
linked together with a queue. Messages are consumed from one Kafka cluster and
produced to another. Figure 1-8 shows an example of an architecture that uses Mir‐
rorMaker, aggregating messages from two local clusters into an aggregate cluster and
then copying that cluster to other datacenters. The simple nature of the application
belies its power in creating sophisticated data pipelines, which will be detailed further
in Chapter 9.
Enter Kafka | 9

=== PAGE 39 ===
Figure 1-8. Multiple datacenters architecture
Why Kafka?
There are many choices for publish/subscribe messaging systems, so what makes
Apache Kafka a good choice?
Multiple Producers
Kafka is able to seamlessly handle multiple producers, whether those clients are using
many topics or the same topic. This makes the system ideal for aggregating data from
many frontend systems and making it consistent. For example, a site that serves con‐
tent to users via a number of microservices can have a single topic for page views that
all services can write to using a common format. Consumer applications can then
receive a single stream of page views for all applications on the site without having to
coordinate consuming from multiple topics, one for each application.
Multiple Consumers
In addition to multiple producers, Kafka is designed for multiple consumers to read
any single stream of messages without interfering with each other client. This is in
contrast to many queuing systems where once a message is consumed by one client, it
is not available to any other. Multiple Kafka consumers can choose to operate as part
of a group and share a stream, assuring that the entire group processes a given mes‐
sage only once.
10 | Chapter 1: Meet Kafka

=== PAGE 40 ===
Disk-Based Retention
Not only can Kafka handle multiple consumers, but durable message retention means
that consumers do not always need to work in real time.  Messages are written to disk
and will be stored with configurable retention rules. These options can be selected on
a per-topic basis, allowing for different streams of messages to have different amounts
of retention depending on the consumer needs. Durable retention means that if a
consumer falls behind, either due to slow processing or a burst in traffic, there is no
danger of losing data. It also means that maintenance can be performed on consum‐
ers, taking applications offline for a short period of time, with no concern about mes‐
sages backing up on the producer or getting lost. Consumers can be stopped, and the
messages will be retained in Kafka. This allows them to restart and pick up processing
messages where they left off with no data loss.
Scalable
Kafka’s flexible scalability makes it easy to handle any amount of data. Users can start
with a single broker as a proof of concept, expand to a small development cluster of
three brokers, and move into production with a larger cluster of tens or even hun‐
dreds of brokers that grows over time as the data scales up. Expansions can be per‐
formed while the cluster is online, with no impact on the availability of the system as
a whole. This also means that a cluster of multiple brokers can handle the failure of
an individual broker and continue servicing clients. Clusters that need to tolerate
more simultaneous failures can be configured with higher replication factors. Repli‐
cation is discussed in more detail in Chapter 7.
High Performance
All of these features come together to make Apache Kafka a publish/subscribe mes‐
saging system with excellent performance under high load. Producers, consumers,
and brokers can all be scaled out to handle very large message streams with ease. This
can be done while still providing subsecond message latency from producing a mes‐
sage to availability to consumers.
Platform Features
The core Apache Kafka project has also added some streaming platform features that
can make it much easier for developers to perform common types of work. While not
full platforms, which typically include a structured runtime environment like YARN,
these features are in the form of APIs and libraries that provide a solid foundation to
build on and flexibility as to where they can be run. Kafka Connect assists with the
task of pulling data from a source data system and pushing it into Kafka, or pulling
data from Kafka and pushing it into a sink data system. Kafka Streams provides a
library for easily developing stream processing applications that are scalable and fault
Why Kafka? | 11

=== PAGE 41 ===
tolerant. Connect is discussed in Chapter 9, while Streams is covered in great detail in
Chapter 14.
The Data Ecosystem
Many applications participate in the environments we build for data processing. We
have defined inputs in the form of applications that create data or otherwise intro‐
duce it to the system. We have defined outputs in the form of metrics, reports, and
other data products. We create loops, with some components reading data from the
system, transforming it using data from other sources, and then introducing it back
into the data infrastructure to be used elsewhere. This is done for numerous types of
data, with each having unique qualities of content, size, and usage.
Apache Kafka provides the circulatory system for the data ecosystem, as shown in
Figure 1-9 . It carries messages between the various members of the infrastructure,
providing a consistent interface for all clients. When coupled with a system to pro‐
vide message schemas, producers and consumers no longer require tight coupling or
direct connections of any sort. Components can be added and removed as business
cases are created and dissolved, and producers do not need to be concerned about
who is using the data or the number of consuming applications.
Figure 1-9. A big data ecosystem
Use Cases
Activity tracking
The original use case for Kafka, as it was designed at LinkedIn, is that of user activity
tracking. A website’s users interact with frontend applications, which generate mes‐
sages regarding actions the user is taking. This can be passive information, such as
12 | Chapter 1: Meet Kafka

=== PAGE 42 ===
page views and click tracking, or it can be more complex actions, such as information
that a user adds to their profile. The messages are published to one or more topics,
which are then consumed by applications on the backend. These applications may be
generating reports, feeding machine learning systems, updating search results, or per‐
forming other operations that are necessary to provide a rich user experience.
