All connections where the message flows, as well as all disks where messages are
stored, should be encrypted or physically secured to prevent eavesdroppers from
reading the data and to ensure that data cannot be stolen.
Data integrity
Message digests should be included for data transmitted over insecure networks
to detect tampering.
Access control
Before writing the message to the log, the leader broker should verify that Alice is
authorized to write to customerOrders. Before returning messages to Bob’s con‐
sumer, the broker should verify that Bob is authorized to read from the topic. If
Bob’s consumer uses group management, the broker should also verify that Bob
has access to the consumer group.
Auditability
An audit trail that shows all operations that were performed by brokers, Alice,
Bob, and other clients should be logged.
Availability
Brokers should apply quotas and limits to avoid some users hogging all the avail‐
able bandwidth or overwhelming the broker with denial-of-service attacks. Zoo‐
Keeper should be locked down to ensure availability of the Kafka cluster since
broker availability is dependent on ZooKeeper availability and the integrity of
metadata stored in ZooKeeper.
In the following sections, we explore the Kafka security features that can be used to
provide these guarantees. We first introduce the Kafka connection model and the
security protocols associated with connections from clients to Kafka brokers. We then
look at each security protocol in detail and examine the authentication capabilities of
each protocol to ascertain client authenticity and server authenticity. We review
options for encryption at different stages, including built-in encryption of data in
transit in some security protocols to address data privacy and data integrity. Then, we
explore customizable authorization in Kafka to manage access control and the main
logs that contribute to auditability. Finally, we review security for the rest of the
Locking Down Kafka | 267

=== PAGE 297 ===
system, including ZooKeeper and the platform, which is necessary to maintain availa‐
bility. For details on quotas that contribute to service availability through fair alloca‐
tion of resources among users, refer to Chapter 3.
Security Protocols
Kafka brokers are configured with listeners on one or more endpoints and accept cli‐
ent connections on these listeners. Each listener can be configured with its own secu‐
rity settings. Security requirements on a private internal listener that is physically
protected and only accessible to authorized personnel may be different from the secu‐
rity requirements of an external listener accessible over the public internet. The
choice of security protocol determines the level of authentication and encryption of
data in transit.
Kafka supports four security protocols using two standard technologies, TLS and
SASL. Transport Layer Security (TLS), commonly referred to by the name of its pre‐
decessor, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), supports encryption as well as client and server
authentication. Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL) is a framework for
providing authentication using different mechanisms in connection-oriented proto‐
cols. Each Kafka security protocol combines a transport layer (PLAINTEXT or SSL)
with an optional authentication layer (SSL or SASL):
PLAINTEXT
PLAINTEXT transport layer with no authentication. Is suitable only for use
within private networks for processing data that is not sensitive since no authen‐
tication or encryption is used.
SSL
SSL transport layer with optional SSL client authentication. Is suitable for use in
insecure networks since client and server authentication as well as encryption are
supported.
SASL_PLAINTEXT
PLAINTEXT transport layer with SASL client authentication. Some SASL mech‐
anisms also support server authentication. Does not support encryption and
hence is suitable only for use within private networks.
SASL_SSL
SSL transport layer with SASL authentication. Is suitable for use in insecure net‐
works since client and server authentication as well as encryption are supported.
268 | Chapter 11: Securing Kafka

=== PAGE 298 ===
TLS/SSL
TLS is one of the most widely used cryptographic protocols on the
public internet. Application protocols like HTTP , SMTP , and FTP
rely on TLS to provide privacy and integrity of data in transit. TLS
relies on a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) to create, manage, and
distribute digital certificates that can be used for asymmetric
encryption, avoiding the need for distributing shared secrets
between servers and clients. Session keys generated during the TLS
handshake enable symmetric encryption with higher performance
for subsequent data transfer.
The listener used for inter-broker communication can be selected by configuring
inter.broker.listener.name or security.inter.broker.protocol. Both server-
side and client-side configuration options must be provided in the broker configura‐
tion for the security protocol used for inter-broker communication. This is because
brokers need to establish client connections for that listener. The following example
configures SSL for the inter-broker and internal listeners, and SASL_SSL for the
external listener:
listeners=EXTERNAL://:9092,INTERNAL://10.0.0.2:9093,BROKER://10.0.0.2:9094
advertised.listeners=EXTERNAL://broker1.example.com:9092,INTERNAL://
broker1.local:9093,BROKER://broker1.local:9094
listener.security.protocol.map=EXTERNAL:SASL_SSL,INTERNAL:SSL,BROKER:SSL
inter.broker.listener.name=BROKER
Clients are configured with a security protocol and bootstrap servers that determine
the broker listener. Metadata returned to clients contains only the endpoints corre‐
sponding to the same listener as the bootstrap servers:
security.protocol=SASL_SSL
bootstrap.servers=broker1.example.com:9092,broker2.example.com:9092
In the next section on authentication, we review the protocol-specific configuration
options for brokers and clients for each security protocol.
Authentication
Authentication is the process of establishing the identity of the client and server to
verify client authenticity and server authenticity. When Alice’s client connects to the
leader broker to produce a customer order record, server authentication enables the
client to establish that the server that the client is talking to is the actual broker. Client
authentication verifies Alice’s identity by validating Alice’s credentials, like a password
or digital certificate, to determine that the connection is from Alice and not an
impersonator. Once authenticated, Alice’s identity is associated with the connection
throughout the lifetime of the connection. Kafka uses an instance of KafkaPrincipal
to represent client identity and uses this principal to grant access to resources and
Authentication | 269

=== PAGE 299 ===
allocate quotas for connections with that client identity. The KafkaPrincipal for each
connection is established during authentication based on the authentication protocol.
For example, the principal User:Alice may be used for Alice based on the username
provided for password-based authentication. KafkaPrincipal may be customized by
configuring principal.builder.class for brokers.
Anonymous Connections
The principal User:ANONYMOUS is used for unauthenticated connec‐
tions. This includes clients on PLAINTEXT listeners as well as
unauthenticated clients on SSL listeners.
SSL
When Kafka is configured with SSL or SASL_SSL as the security protocol for a lis‐
tener, TLS is used as the secure transport layer for connections on that listener. When
a connection is established over TLS, the TLS handshake process performs authenti‐
cation, negotiates cryptographic parameters, and generates shared keys for encryp‐
tion. The server’s digital certificate is verified by the client to establish the identity of
the server. If client authentication using SSL is enabled, the server also verifies the cli‐
ent’s digital certificate to establish the identity of the client. All traffic over SSL is
encrypted, making it suitable for use in insecure networks.
SSL Performance
SSL channels are encrypted and hence introduce a noticeable over‐
head in terms of CPU usage. Zero-copy transfer is currently not
supported for SSL. Depending on the traffic pattern, the overhead
may be up to 20–30%.
Configuring TLS
When TLS is enabled for a broker listener using SSL or SASL_SSL, brokers should be
configured with a key store containing the broker’s private key and certificate, and
clients should be configured with a trust store containing the broker certificate or the
certificate of the certificate authority (CA) that signed the broker certificate.  Broker
certificates should contain the broker hostname as a Subject Alternative Name (SAN)
extension or as the Common Name (CN) to enable clients to verify the server host‐
name. Wildcard certificates can be used to simplify administration by using the same
key store for all brokers in a domain.
270 | Chapter 11: Securing Kafka

=== PAGE 300 ===
Server Hostname verification
By default, Kafka clients verify that the hostname of the server
stored in the server certificate matches the host that the client is
connecting to. The connection hostname may be a bootstrap server
that the client is configured with or an advertised listener hostname
that was returned by a broker in a metadata response. Hostname
verification is a critical part of server authentication that protects
against man-in-the-middle attacks and hence should not be dis‐
abled in production systems.
Brokers can be configured to authenticate clients connecting over listeners using
SSL as the security protocol by setting the broker configuration option ssl.
client.auth=required. Clients should be configured with a key store, and brokers
should be configured with a trust store containing client certificates or the certificate
of the CAs that signed the client certificates. If SSL is used for inter-broker communi‐
cation, broker trust stores should include the CA of the broker certificates as well as
the CA of the client certificates. By default, the distinguished name (DN) of the client
certificate is used as the KafkaPrincipal for authorization and quotas.  The configu‐
ration option ssl.principal.mapping.rules can be used to provide a list of rules to
customize the principal. Listeners using SASL_SSL disable TLS client authentication
and rely on SASL authentication and the KafkaPrincipal established by SASL.
SSL Client Authentication
SSL client authentication may be made optional by setting ssl.
client.auth=requested. Clients that are not configured with key
stores will complete the TLS handshake in this case, but will be
assigned the principal User:ANONYMOUS.
The following examples show how to create key stores and trust stores for server and
client authentication using a self-signed CA.
Generate self-signed CA key-pair for brokers:
$ keytool -genkeypair -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -keystore server.ca.p12        \
  -storetype PKCS12 -storepass server-ca-password -keypass server-ca-password  \
  -alias ca -dname "CN=BrokerCA" -ext bc=ca:true -validity 365     
$ keytool -export -file server.ca.crt -keystore server.ca.p12 \
  -storetype PKCS12 -storepass server-ca-password -alias ca -rfc   
Create a key-pair for the CA and store it in a PKCS12 file server.ca.p12. We use
this for signing certificates.
Export the CA ’s public certificate to server.ca.crt. This will be included in trust
stores and certificate chains.
Authentication | 271

=== PAGE 301 ===
Create key stores for brokers with a certificate signed by the self-signed CA. If using
wildcard hostnames, the same key store can be used for all brokers. Otherwise, create
a key store for each broker with its fully qualified domain name (FQDN):
$ keytool -genkey -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -keystore server.ks.p12         \
  -storepass server-ks-password -keypass server-ks-password -alias server   \
  -storetype PKCS12 -dname "CN=Kafka,O=Confluent,C=GB" -validity 365      
$ keytool -certreq -file server.csr -keystore server.ks.p12 -storetype PKCS12 \
  -storepass server-ks-password -keypass server-ks-password -alias server 
$ keytool -gencert -infile server.csr -outfile server.crt                   \
  -keystore server.ca.p12 -storetype PKCS12 -storepass server-ca-password   \
  -alias ca -ext SAN=DNS:broker1.example.com -validity 365                
$ cat server.crt server.ca.crt > serverchain.crt
$ keytool -importcert -file serverchain.crt -keystore server.ks.p12         \
  -storepass server-ks-password -keypass server-ks-password -alias server   \
