returns a list of maps (i.e., a configuration for each task we want to run). The
workers are then responsible for starting the tasks and giving each one its own
unique configuration so that it will copy a unique subset of tables from the data‐
base. Note that when you start the connector via the REST API, it may start on
any node, and subsequently the tasks it starts may also execute on any node.
Tasks
Tasks are responsible for actually getting the data in and out of Kafka. All tasks
are initialized by receiving a context from the worker. Source context includes an
object that allows the source task to store the offsets of source records (e.g., in the
file connector, the offsets are positions in the file; in the JDBC source connector,
the offsets can be a timestamp column in a table). Context for the sink connector
includes methods that allow the connector to control the records it receives from
Kafka—this is used for things like applying back pressure and retrying and stor‐
ing offsets externally for exactly-once delivery. After tasks are initialized, they are
started with a Properties object that contains the configuration the Connector
created for the task. Once tasks are started, source tasks poll an external system
and return lists of records that the worker sends to Kafka brokers. Sink tasks
receive records from Kafka through the worker and are responsible for writing
the records to an external system.
226 | Chapter 9: Building Data Pipelines

=== PAGE 256 ===
Workers
Kafka Connect’s worker processes are the “container” processes that execute the con‐
nectors and tasks. They are responsible for handling the HTTP requests that define
connectors and their configuration, as well as for storing the connector configuration
in an internal Kafka topic, starting the connectors and their tasks, and passing the
appropriate configurations along. If a worker process is stopped or crashes, other
workers in a Connect cluster will recognize that (using the heartbeats in Kafka’s con‐
sumer protocol) and reassign the connectors and tasks that ran on that worker to the
remaining workers. If a new worker joins a Connect cluster, other workers will notice
that and assign connectors or tasks to it to make sure load is balanced among all
workers fairly. Workers are also responsible for automatically committing offsets for
both source and sink connectors into internal Kafka topics and for handling retries
when tasks throw errors.
The best way to understand workers is to realize that connectors and tasks are
responsible for the “moving data” part of data integration, while the workers are
responsible for the REST API, configuration management, reliability, high availabil‐
ity, scaling, and load balancing.
This separation of concerns is the main benefit of using the Connect API versus the
classic consumer/producer APIs. Experienced developers know that writing code that
reads data from Kafka and inserts it into a database takes maybe a day or two, but if
you need to handle configuration, errors, REST APIs, monitoring, deployment, scal‐
ing up and down, and handling failures, it can take a few months to get everything
right. And most data integration pipelines involve more than just the one source or
target. So now consider that effort spent on bespoke code for just a database integra‐
tion, repeated many times for other technologies. If you implement data copying with
a connector, your connector plugs into workers that handle a bunch of complicated
operational issues that you don’t need to worry about.
Converters and Connect’s data model
The last piece of the Connect API puzzle is the connector data model and the con‐
verters. Kafka’s Connect API includes a data API, which includes both data objects
and a schema that describes that data. For example, the JDBC source reads a column
from a database and constructs a Connect Schema object based on the data types of
the columns returned by the database. It then uses the schema to construct a Struct
that contains all the fields in the database record. For each column, we store the col‐
umn name and the value in that column. Every source connector does something
similar—read an event from the source system and generate a Schema and Value pair.
Sink connectors do the opposite—get a Schema and Value pair and use the Schema to
parse the values and insert them into the target system.
Kafka Connect | 227

=== PAGE 257 ===
Though source connectors know how to generate objects based on the Data API,
there is still a question of how Connect workers store these objects in Kafka. This is
where the converters come in. When users configure the worker (or the connector),
they choose which converter they want to use to store data in Kafka. At the moment,
the available choices are primitive types, byte arrays, strings, Avro, JSON, JSON sche‐
mas, or Protobufs. The JSON converter can be configured to either include a schema
in the result record or not include one—so we can support both structured and semi‐
structured data. When the connector returns a Data API record to the worker, the
worker then uses the configured converter to convert the record to an Avro object, a
JSON object, or a string, and the result is then stored into Kafka.
The opposite process happens for sink connectors. When the Connect worker reads a
record from Kafka, it uses the configured converter to convert the record from the
format in Kafka (i.e., primitive types, byte arrays, strings, Avro, JSON, JSON schema,
or Protobufs) to the Connect Data API record and then passes it to the sink connec‐
tor, which inserts it into the destination system.
This allows the Connect API to support different types of data stored in Kafka, inde‐
pendent of the connector implementation (i.e., any connector can be used with any
record type, as long as a converter is available).
Offset management
Offset management is one of the convenient services the workers perform for the
connectors (in addition to deployment and configuration management via the REST
API). The idea is that connectors need to know which data they have already pro‐
cessed, and they can use APIs provided by Kafka to maintain information on which
events were already processed.
For source connectors, this means that the records the connector returns to the Con‐
nect workers include a logical partition and a logical offset. Those are not Kafka par‐
titions and Kafka offsets but rather partitions and offsets as needed in the source
system. For example, in the file source, a partition can be a file and an offset can be a
line number or character number in the file. In a JDBC source, a partition can be a
database table and the offset can be an ID or timestamp of a record in the table. One
of the most important design decisions involved in writing a source connector is
deciding on a good way to partition the data in the source system and to track
offsets—this will impact the level of parallelism the connector can achieve and
whether it can deliver at-least-once or exactly-once semantics.
When the source connector returns a list of records, which includes the source parti‐
tion and offset for each record, the worker sends the records to Kafka brokers. If the
brokers successfully acknowledge the records, the worker then stores the offsets of
the records it sent to Kafka. This allows connectors to start processing events from
the most recently stored offset after a restart or a crash. The storage mechanism is
228 | Chapter 9: Building Data Pipelines

=== PAGE 258 ===
pluggable and is usually a Kafka topic; you can control the topic name with the
offset.storage.topic configuration. In addition, Connect uses Kafka topics to
store the configuration of all the connectors we’ve created and the status of each con‐
nector—these use names configured by config.storage.topic and status.
storage.topic, respectively.
Sink connectors have an opposite but similar workflow: they read Kafka records,
which already have a topic, partition, and offset identifiers. Then they call the
connector put() method that should store those records in the destination system. If
the connector reports success, they commit the offsets they’ve given to the connector
back to Kafka, using the usual consumer commit methods.
Offset tracking provided by the framework itself should make it easier for developers
to write connectors and guarantee some level of consistent behavior when using dif‐
ferent connectors.
Alternatives to Kafka Connect
So far we’ve looked at Kafka’s Connect API in great detail. While we love the conve‐
nience and reliability the Connect API provides, it is not the only method for getting
data in and out of Kafka. Let’s look at other alternatives and when they are commonly
used.
Ingest Frameworks for Other Datastores
While we like to think that Kafka is the center of the universe, some people disagree.
Some people build most of their data architectures around systems like Hadoop or
Elasticsearch. Those systems have their own data ingestion tools—Flume for Hadoop,
and Logstash or Fluentd for Elasticsearch. We recommend Kafka’s Connect API when
Kafka is an integral part of the architecture and when the goal is to connect large
numbers of sources and sinks. If you are actually building a Hadoop-centric or
Elastic-centric system and Kafka is just one of many inputs into that system, then
using Flume or Logstash makes sense.
GUI-Based ETL Tools
Old-school systems like Informatica, open source alternatives like Talend and Pen‐
taho, and even newer alternatives such as Apache NiFi and StreamSets, support
Apache Kafka as both a data source and a destination. If you are already using these
systems—if you already do everything using Pentaho, for example—you may not be
interested in adding another data integration system just for Kafka. They also make
sense if you are using a GUI-based approach to building ETL pipelines. The main
drawback of these systems is that they are usually built for involved workflows and
will be a somewhat heavy and involved solution if all you want to do is get data in and
Alternatives to Kafka Connect | 229

=== PAGE 259 ===
out of Kafka. We believe that data integration should focus on faithful delivery of
messages under all conditions, while most ETL tools add unnecessary complexity.
We do encourage you to look at Kafka as a platform that can handle data integration
(with Connect), application integration (with producers and consumers), and stream
processing. Kafka could be a viable replacement for an ETL tool that only integrates
data stores.
Stream Processing Frameworks
Almost all stream processing frameworks include the ability to read events from
Kafka and write them to a few other systems. If your destination system is supported
and you already intend to use that stream processing framework to process events
from Kafka, it seems reasonable to use the same framework for data integration as
well. This often saves a step in the stream processing workflow (no need to store pro‐
cessed events in Kafka—just read them out and write them to another system), with
the drawback that it can be more difficult to troubleshoot things like lost and corrup‐
ted messages.
Summary
In this chapter we discussed the use of Kafka for data integration. Starting with rea‐
sons to use Kafka for data integration, we covered general considerations for data
integration solutions. We showed why we think Kafka and its Connect API are a good
fit. We then gave several examples of how to use Kafka Connect in different scenarios,
spent some time looking at how Connect works, and then discussed a few alternatives
to Kafka Connect.
Whatever data integration solution you eventually land on, the most important fea‐
ture will always be its ability to deliver all messages under all failure conditions. We
believe that Kafka Connect is extremely reliable—based on its integration with Kafka’s
tried-and-true reliability features—but it is important that you test the system of your
choice, just like we do. Make sure your data integration system of choice can survive
stopped processes, crashed machines, network delays, and high loads without missing
a message. After all, at their heart, data integration systems only have one job—deliv‐
ering those messages.
Of course, while reliability is usually the most important requirement when integrat‐
ing data systems, it is only one requirement. When choosing a data system, it is
important to first review your requirements (refer to “Considerations When Building
Data Pipelines” on page 204 for examples) and then make sure your system of choice
satisfies them. But this isn’t enough—you must also learn your data integration solu‐
tion well enough to be certain that you are using it in a way that supports your
requirements. It isn’t enough that Kafka supports at-least-once semantics; you must
230 | Chapter 9: Building Data Pipelines

=== PAGE 260 ===
be sure you aren’t accidentally configuring it in a way that may end up with less than
complete reliability.
Summary | 231

=== PAGE 262 ===
CHAPTER 10
Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring
For most of the book we discuss the setup, maintenance, and use of a single Kafka
cluster. There are, however, a few scenarios in which an architecture may need more
than one cluster.
In some cases, the clusters are completely separated. They belong to different depart‐
ments or different use cases, and there is no reason to copy data from one cluster to
another. Sometimes, different SLAs or workloads make it difficult to tune a single
cluster to serve multiple use cases. Other times, there are different security require‐
ments. Those use cases are fairly easy—managing multiple distinct clusters is the
same as running a single cluster multiple times.
