segment (reducing the overall available memory). The same can happen with a CPU
352 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 382 ===
failure. For problems such as these, you should be using the facilities that your
hardware provides, such as an intelligent platform management interface (IPMI) to
monitor hardware health. When there’s an active problem, looking at the kernel ring
buffer using dmesg will help you to see log messages that are getting thrown to the
system console.
The more common type of hardware failure that leads to a performance degradation
in Kafka is a disk failure. Apache Kafka is dependent on the disk for persistence of
messages, and producer performance is directly tied to how fast your disks commit
those writes. Any deviation in this will show up as problems with the performance of
the producers and the replica fetchers. The latter is what leads to under-replicated
partitions. As such, it is important to monitor the health of the disks at all times and
address any problems quickly.
One Bad Egg
A single disk failure on a single broker can destroy the perfor‐
mance of an entire cluster. This is because the producer clients will
connect to all brokers that lead partitions for a topic, and if you
have followed best practices, those partitions will be evenly spread
over the entire cluster. If one broker starts performing poorly and
slowing down produce requests, this will cause back pressure in the
producers, slowing down requests to all brokers.
To begin with, make sure you are monitoring hardware status information for the
disks from the IPMI, or the interface provided by your hardware. In addition, within
the OS you should be running SMART (Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting
Technology) tools to both monitor and test the disks on a regular basis. This will alert
you to a failure that is about to happen. It is also important to keep an eye on the disk
controller, especially if it has RAID functionality, whether you are using hardware
RAID or not. Many controllers have an onboard cache that is only used when the
controller is healthy and the battery backup unit (BBU) is working. A failure of the
BBU can result in the cache being disabled, degrading disk performance.
Networking is another area where partial failures will cause problems. Some of these
problems are hardware issues, such as a bad network cable or connector. Some are
configuration issues, which is usually a change in the speed or duplex settings for the
connection, either on the server side or upstream on the networking hardware. Net‐
work configuration problems could also be OS issues, such as having the network
buffers undersized or too many network connections taking up too much of the over‐
all memory footprint. One of the key indicators of problems in this area will be the
number of errors detected on the network interfaces. If the error count is increasing,
there is probably an unaddressed issue.
Kafka Broker Metrics | 353

=== PAGE 383 ===
If there are no hardware problems, another common problem to look for is another
application running on the system that is consuming resources and putting pressure
on the Kafka broker. This could be something that was installed in error, or it could
be a process that is supposed to be running, such as a monitoring agent, but is having
problems. Use the tools on your system, such as top, to identify if there is a process
that is using more CPU or memory than expected.
If the other options have been exhausted and you have not yet found the source of the
discrepancy on the host, a configuration difference has likely crept in, either with the
broker or the system itself. Given the number of applications that are running on any
single server and the number of configuration options for each of them, it can be a
daunting task to find a discrepancy. This is why it is crucial that you utilize a configu‐
ration management system, such as Chef or Puppet, in order to maintain consistent
configurations across your OSes and applications (including Kafka).
Broker Metrics
In addition to under-replicated partitions, there are other metrics that are present at
the overall broker level that should be monitored. While you may not be inclined to
set alert thresholds for all of them, they provide valuable information about your
brokers and your cluster. They should be present in any monitoring dashboard you
create.
Active controller count
The active controller count metric indicates whether the broker is currently the con‐
troller for the cluster. The metric will either be 0 or 1, with 1 showing that the broker
is currently the controller. At all times, only one broker should be the controller, and
one broker must always be the controller in the cluster. If two brokers say that they
are currently the controller, this means that you have a problem where a controller
thread that should have exited has become stuck. This can cause problems with not
being able to execute administrative tasks, such as partition moves, properly. To rem‐
edy this, you will need to restart both brokers at the very least. However, when there
is an extra controller in the cluster, there will often be problems performing a safe
shutdown of a broker, and you will need to force stop the broker instead. See
Table 13-5 for more details on active controller count.
Table 13-5. Active controller count metric details
Metric name Active controller count
JMX MBean kafka.controller:type=KafkaController,name=ActiveControllerCount
Value range Zero or one
354 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 384 ===
If no broker claims to be the controller in the cluster, the cluster will fail to respond
properly in the face of state changes, including topic or partition creation, or broker
failures. In this situation, you must investigate further to find out why the controller
threads are not working properly. For example, a network partition from the Zoo‐
Keeper cluster could result in a problem like this. Once that underlying problem is
fixed, it is wise to restart all the brokers in the cluster in order to reset state for the
controller threads.
Controller queue size
The controller queue size  metric indicates how many requests the controller is cur‐
rently waiting to process for the brokers.  The metric will be 0 or more, with the value
fluctuating frequently as new requests from brokers come in and administrative
actions, such as creating partitions, moving partitions, and processing leader changes
happen. Spikes in the metric are to be expected, but if this value continuously increa‐
ses, or stays steady at a high value and does not drop, it indicates that the controller
may be stuck. This can cause problems with not being able to execute administrative
tasks properly. To remedy this, you will need to move the controller to a different
broker, which requires shutting down the broker that is currently the controller.
However, when the controller is stuck, there will often be problems performing a
controlled shutdown of any broker. See Table 13-6 for more details on controller
queue size.
Table 13-6. Controller queue size metric details
Metric name Controller queue size
JMX MBean kafka.controller:type=ControllerEventManager,name=EventQueueSize
Value range Integer, zero or more
Request handler idle ratio
Kafka uses two thread pools for handling all client requests: network threads and
request handler threads (also called I/O threads). The network threads are responsible
for reading and writing data to the clients across the network. This does not require
significant processing, which means that exhaustion of the network threads is less of a
concern. The request handler threads, however, are responsible for servicing the cli‐
ent request itself, which includes reading or writing the messages to disk. As such, as
the brokers get more heavily loaded, there is a significant impact on this thread pool.
See Table 13-7 for more details on the request handler idle ratio.
Kafka Broker Metrics | 355

=== PAGE 385 ===
Table 13-7. Request handler idle ratio details
Metric
name
Request handler average idle percentage
JMX
MBean
kafka.server:type=KafkaRequestHandlerPool,name=RequestHandlerAvgIdlePercent
Value
range
Float, between zero and one inclusive
Intelligent Thread Usage
While it may seem like you will need hundreds of request handler
threads, in reality you do not need to configure any more threads
than you have CPUs in the broker. Apache Kafka is very smart
about the way it uses the request handlers, making sure to offload
to purgatory those requests that will take a long time to process.
This is used, for example, when requests are being quoted or when
more than one acknowledgment of produce requests is required.
The request handler idle ratio metric indicates the percentage of time the request
handlers are not in use. The lower this number, the more loaded the broker is. Expe‐
rience tells us that idle ratios lower than 20% indicate a potential problem, and lower
than 10% is usually an active performance problem. Besides the cluster being under‐
sized, there are two reasons for high thread utilization in this pool. The first is that
there are not enough threads in the pool. In general, you should set the number of
request handler threads equal to the number of processors in the system (including
hyperthreaded processors).
The other common reason for high request handler thread utilization is that the
threads are doing unnecessary work for each request. Prior to Kafka 0.10, the request
handler thread was responsible for decompressing every incoming message batch,
validating the messages and assigning offsets, and then recompressing the message
batch with offsets before writing it to disk. To make matters worse, the compression
methods were all behind a synchronous lock. As of version 0.10, there is a new mes‐
sage format that allows for relative offsets in a message batch. This means that newer
producers will set relative offsets prior to sending the message batch, which allows the
broker to skip recompression of the message batch. One of the single largest perfor‐
mance improvements you can make is to ensure that all producer and consumer cli‐
ents support the 0.10 message format, and to change the message format version on
the brokers to 0.10 as well. This will greatly reduce the utilization of the request han‐
dler threads.
356 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 386 ===
All topics bytes in
The all topics bytes in rate, expressed in bytes per second, is useful as a measurement
of how much message traffic your brokers are receiving from producing clients. This
is a good metric to trend over time to help you determine when you need to expand
the cluster or do other growth-related work. It is also useful for evaluating if one
broker in a cluster is receiving more traffic than the others, which would indicate that
it is necessary to rebalance the partitions in the cluster. See Table 13-8 for more
details.
Table 13-8. All topics bytes in metric details
Metric name Bytes in per second
JMX MBean kafka.server:type=BrokerTopicMetrics,name=BytesInPerSec
Value range Rates as doubles, count as integer
As this is the first rate metric discussed, it is worth a short discussion of the attributes
that are provided by these types of metrics. All of the rate metrics have seven
attributes, and choosing which ones to use depends on what type of measurement
you want. The attributes provide a discrete count of events, as well as an average of
the number of events over various periods of time. Make sure to use the metrics
appropriately, or you will end up with a flawed view of the broker.
The first two attributes are not measurements, but they will help you understand the
metric you are looking at:
EventType
This is the unit of measurement for all the attributes. In this case, it is “bytes. ”
RateUnit
For the rate attributes, this is the time period for the rate. In this case, it is
“seconds. ”
These two descriptive attributes tell us that the rates, regardless of the period of time
they average over, are presented as a value of bytes per second. There are four rate
attributes provided with different granularities:
OneMinuteRate
An average over the previous 1 minute
FiveMinuteRate
An average over the previous 5 minutes
FifteenMinuteRate
An average over the previous 15 minutes
Kafka Broker Metrics | 357

=== PAGE 387 ===
MeanRate
An average since the broker was started
