In other use cases, the different clusters are interdependent, and the administrators
need to continuously copy data between the clusters. In most databases, continuously
copying data between database servers is called replication. Since we’ve used replica‐
tion to describe movement of data between Kafka nodes that are part of the same
cluster, we’ll call copying of data between Kafka clusters mirroring. Apache Kafka’s
built-in cross-cluster replicator is called MirrorMaker.
In this chapter, we will discuss cross-cluster mirroring of all or part of the data. We’ll
start by discussing some of the common use cases for cross-cluster mirroring. Then
we’ll show a few architectures that are used to implement these use cases and discuss
the pros and cons of each architecture pattern. We’ll then discuss MirrorMaker itself
and how to use it. We’ll share operational tips, including deployment and perfor‐
mance tuning. We’ll finish by discussing a few alternatives to MirrorMaker.
233

=== PAGE 263 ===
Use Cases of Cross-Cluster Mirroring
The following is a list of examples of when cross-cluster mirroring would be used:
Regional and central clusters
In some cases, the company has one or more datacenters in different geographi‐
cal regions, cities, or continents. Each datacenter has its own Kafka cluster.  Some
applications can work just by communicating with the local cluster, but some
applications require data from multiple datacenters (otherwise, you wouldn’t be
looking at cross-datacenter replication solutions). There are many cases when
this is a requirement, but the classic example is a company that modifies prices
based on supply and demand. This company can have a datacenter in each city in
which it has a presence, collects information about local supply and demand, and
adjusts prices accordingly. All this information will then be mirrored to a central
cluster where business analysts can run company-wide reports on its revenue.
High availability (HA) and disaster recovery (DR)
The applications run on just one Kafka cluster and don’t need data from other
locations, but you are concerned about the possibility of the entire cluster
becoming unavailable for some reason. For redundancy, you’ d like to have a sec‐
ond Kafka cluster with all the data that exists in the first cluster, so in case of
emergency you can direct your applications to the second cluster and continue as
usual.
Regulatory compliance
Companies operating in different countries may need to use different configura‐
tions and policies to conform to legal and regulatory requirements in each coun‐
try. For instance, some datasets may be stored in separate clusters with strict
access control, with subsets of data replicated to other clusters with wider access.
To comply with regulatory policies that govern retention period in each region,
datasets may be stored in clusters in different regions with different
configurations.
Cloud migrations
Many companies these days run their business in both an on-premises datacenter
and a cloud provider. Often, applications run on multiple regions of the cloud
provider for redundancy, and sometimes multiple cloud providers are used. In
these cases, there is often at least one Kafka cluster in each on-premises datacen‐
ter and each cloud region. Those Kafka clusters are used by applications in each
datacenter and region to transfer data efficiently between the datacenters. For
example, if a new application is deployed in the cloud but requires some data that
is updated by applications running in the on-premises datacenter and stored in
an on-premises database, you can use Kafka Connect to capture database changes
to the local Kafka cluster and then mirror these changes to the cloud Kafka
234 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 264 ===
cluster where the new application can use them. This helps control the costs of
cross-datacenter traffic as well as improve governance and security of the traffic.
Aggregation of data from edge clusters
Several industries, including retail, telecommunications, transportation, and
healthcare, generate data from small devices with limited connectivity.  An aggre‐
gate cluster with high availability can be used to support analytics and other use
cases for data from a large number of edge clusters. This reduces connectivity,
availability, and durability requirements on low-footprint edge clusters, for
example, in IoT use cases. A highly available aggregate cluster provides business
continuity even when edge clusters are offline and simplifies the development of
applications that don’t have to directly deal with a large number of edge clusters
with unstable networks.
Multicluster Architectures
Now that we’ve seen a few use cases that require multiple Kafka clusters, let’s look at
some common architectural patterns that we’ve successfully used when implementing
these use cases. Before we go into the architectures, we’ll give a brief overview of the
realities of cross-datacenter communications. The solutions we’ll discuss may seem
overly complicated without understanding that they represent trade-offs in the face of
specific network conditions.
Some Realities of Cross-Datacenter Communication
The following is a list of some things to consider when it comes to cross-datacenter 
communication:
High latencies
Latency of communication between two Kafka clusters increases as the distance
and the number of network hops between the two clusters increase.
Limited bandwidth
Wide area networks (W ANs) typically have far lower available bandwidth than
what you’ll see inside a single datacenter, and the available bandwidth can vary
from minute to minute. In addition, higher latencies make it more challenging to
utilize all the available bandwidth.
Higher costs
Regardless of whether you are running Kafka on premise or in the cloud, there
are higher costs to communicate between clusters. This is partly because the
bandwidth is limited and adding bandwidth can be prohibitively expensive, and
also because of the prices vendors charge for transferring data among datacen‐
ters, regions, and clouds.
Multicluster Architectures | 235

=== PAGE 265 ===
Apache Kafka’s brokers and clients were designed, developed, tested, and tuned, all
within a single datacenter. We assumed low latency and high bandwidth between
brokers and clients. This is apparent in the default timeouts and sizing of various buf‐
fers. For this reason, it is not recommended (except in specific cases, which we’ll dis‐
cuss later) to install some Kafka brokers in one datacenter and others in another
datacenter.
In most cases, it’s best to avoid producing data to a remote datacenter, and when you
do, you need to account for higher latency and the potential for more network errors.
Y ou can handle the errors by increasing the number of producer retries, and handle
the higher latency by increasing the size of the buffers that hold records between
attempts to send them.
If we need any kind of replication between clusters, and we ruled out inter-broker
communication and producer-broker communication, then we must allow for
broker-consumer communication. Indeed, this is the safest form of cross-cluster
communication because in the event of network partition that prevents a consumer
from reading data, the records remain safe inside the Kafka brokers until communi‐
cations resume and consumers can read them. There is no risk of accidental data loss
due to network partitions. Still, because bandwidth is limited, if there are multiple
applications in one datacenter that need to read data from Kafka brokers in another
datacenter, we prefer to install a Kafka cluster in each datacenter and mirror the nec‐
essary data between them once rather than have multiple applications consume the
same data across the W AN.
We’ll talk more about tuning Kafka for cross-datacenter communication, but the fol‐
lowing principles will guide most of the architectures we’ll discuss next:
• No less than one cluster per datacenter.
• Replicate each event exactly once (barring retries due to errors) between each
pair of datacenters.
• When possible, consume from a remote datacenter rather than produce to a
remote datacenter.
Hub-and-Spoke Architecture
This architecture is intended for the case where there are multiple local Kafka clusters
and one central Kafka cluster. See Figure 10-1.
236 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 266 ===
Figure 10-1. The hub-and-spoke architecture
There is also a simpler variation of this architecture with just two clusters: a leader
and a follower. See Figure 10-2.
Figure 10-2. A simpler version of the hub-and-spoke architecture
This architecture is used when data is produced in multiple datacenters and some
consumers need access to the entire dataset. The architecture also allows for applica‐
tions in each datacenter to only process data local to that specific datacenter. But it
does not give access to the entire dataset from every datacenter.
The main benefit of this architecture is that data is always produced to the local data‐
center and events from each datacenter are only mirrored once—to the central data‐
center. Applications that process data from a single datacenter can be located at that
datacenter. Applications that need to process data from multiple datacenters will be
located at the central datacenter where all the events are mirrored. Because replica‐
tion always goes in one direction and because each consumer always reads from the
same cluster, this architecture is simple to deploy, configure, and monitor.
The main drawback of this architecture is the direct result of its benefits and simplic‐
ity. Processors in one regional datacenter can’t access data in another. To understand
better why this is a limitation, let’s look at an example of this architecture.
Suppose that we are a large bank and have branches in multiple cities.  Let’s say that
we decide to store user profiles and their account history in a Kafka cluster in each
city. We replicate all this information to a central cluster that is used to run the bank’s
Multicluster Architectures | 237

=== PAGE 267 ===
business analytics. When users connect to the bank website or visit their local branch,
they are routed to send events to their local cluster and read events from the same
local cluster. However, suppose that a user visits a branch in a different city. Because
the user information doesn’t exist in the city they are visiting, the branch will be
forced to interact with a remote cluster (not recommended) or have no way to access
the user’s information (really embarrassing). For this reason, use of this pattern is
usually limited to only parts of the dataset that can be completely separated between
regional datacenters.
When implementing this architecture, for each regional datacenter you need at least
one mirroring process on the central datacenter. This process will consume data from
each remote regional cluster and produce it to the central cluster. If the same topic
exists in multiple datacenters, you can write all the events from this topic to one topic
with the same name in the central cluster, or write events from each datacenter to a
separate topic.
Active-Active Architecture
This architecture is used when two or more datacenters share some or all of the data,
and each datacenter is able to both produce and consume events. See Figure 10-3.
Figure 10-3. The active-active architecture model
The main benefit of this architecture is the ability to serve users from a nearby data‐
center, which typically has performance benefits, without sacrificing functionality due
to limited availability of data (as we’ve seen happen in the hub-and-spoke architec‐
ture). A secondary benefit is redundancy and resilience. Since every datacenter has all
the functionality, if one datacenter is unavailable, you can direct users to a remaining
datacenter. This type of failover only requires network redirects of users, typically the
easiest and most transparent type of failover.
The main drawback of this architecture is the challenge in avoiding conflicts when
data is read and updated asynchronously in multiple locations. This includes techni‐
cal challenges in mirroring events—for example, how do we make sure the same
event isn’t mirrored back and forth endlessly? But more importantly, maintaining
data consistency between the two datacenters will be difficult. Here are few examples
of the difficulties you will encounter:
238 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 268 ===
• If a user sends an event to one datacenter and reads events from another datacen‐
ter, it is possible that the event they wrote hasn’t arrived at the second datacenter
yet. To the user, it will look like they just added a book to their wish list and
clicked on the wish list, but the book isn’t there. For this reason, when this archi‐
tecture is used, developers usually find a way to “stick” each user to a specific
datacenter and make sure they use the same cluster most of the time (unless they
connect from a remote location or the datacenter becomes unavailable).
• An event from one datacenter says the user ordered book A, and an event from
more or less the same time at a second datacenter says that the same user ordered
book B. After mirroring, both datacenters have both events and thus we can say
that each datacenter has two conflicting events. Applications on both datacenters
