Messaging
Kafka is also used for messaging, where applications need to send notifications (such
as emails) to users. Those applications can produce messages without needing to be
concerned about formatting or how the messages will actually be sent. A single appli‐
cation can then read all the messages to be sent and handle them consistently,
including:
• Formatting the messages (also known as decorating) using a common look and
feel
• Collecting multiple messages into a single notification to be sent
• Applying a user’s preferences for how they want to receive messages
Using a single application for this avoids the need to duplicate functionality in multi‐
ple applications, as well as allows operations like aggregation that would not other‐
wise be possible.
Metrics and logging
Kafka is also ideal for collecting application and system metrics and logs. This is a use
case in which the ability to have multiple applications producing the same type of
message shines. Applications publish metrics on a regular basis to a Kafka topic, and
those metrics can be consumed by systems for monitoring and alerting. They can also
be used in an offline system like Hadoop to perform longer-term analysis, such as
growth projections. Log messages can be published in the same way and can be
routed to dedicated log search systems like Elasticsearch or security analysis applica‐
tions. Another added benefit of Kafka is that when the destination system needs to
change (e.g., it’s time to update the log storage system), there is no need to alter the
frontend applications or the means of aggregation.
Commit log
Since Kafka is based on the concept of a commit log, database changes can be pub‐
lished to Kafka, and applications can easily monitor this stream to receive live
updates as they happen. This changelog stream can also be used for replicating data‐
base updates to a remote system, or for consolidating changes from multiple applica‐
tions into a single database view. Durable retention is useful here for providing a
buffer for the changelog, meaning it can be replayed in the event of a failure of the
The Data Ecosystem | 13

=== PAGE 43 ===
consuming applications. Alternately, log-compacted topics can be used to provide
longer retention by only retaining a single change per key.
Stream processing
Another area that provides numerous types of applications is stream processing.
While almost all usage of Kafka can be thought of as stream processing, the term is
typically used to refer to applications that provide similar functionality to map/reduce
processing in Hadoop. Hadoop usually relies on aggregation of data over a long time
frame, either hours or days. Stream processing operates on data in real time, as
quickly as messages are produced. Stream frameworks allow users to write small
applications to operate on Kafka messages, performing tasks such as counting met‐
rics, partitioning messages for efficient processing by other applications, or trans‐
forming messages using data from multiple sources. Stream processing is covered in
Chapter 14.
Kafka’s Origin
Kafka was created to address the data pipeline problem at LinkedIn.  It was designed
to provide a high-performance messaging system that can handle many types of data
and provide clean, structured data about user activity and system metrics in real time.
Data really powers everything that we do.
—Jeff Weiner, former CEO of LinkedIn
LinkedIn’s Problem
Similar to the example described at the beginning of this chapter, LinkedIn had a sys‐
tem for collecting system and application metrics that used custom collectors and
open source tools for storing and presenting data internally. In addition to traditional
metrics, such as CPU usage and application performance, there was a sophisticated
request-tracing feature that used the monitoring system and could provide introspec‐
tion into how a single user request propagated through internal applications. The
monitoring system had many faults, however. This included metrics collection based
on polling, large intervals between metrics, and no ability for application owners to
manage their own metrics. The system was high-touch, requiring human interven‐
tion for most simple tasks, and inconsistent, with differing metric names for the same
measurement across different systems.
At the same time, there was a system created for tracking user activity information.
This was an HTTP service that frontend servers would connect to periodically and
publish a batch of messages (in XML format) to the HTTP service. These batches
were then moved to offline processing platforms, which is where the files were parsed
and collated. This system had many faults. The XML formatting was inconsistent,
14 | Chapter 1: Meet Kafka

=== PAGE 44 ===
and parsing it was computationally expensive. Changing the type of user activity that
was tracked required a significant amount of coordinated work between frontends
and offline processing. Even then, the system would break constantly due to changing
schemas. Tracking was built on hourly batching, so it could not be used in real time.
Monitoring and user-activity tracking could not use the same backend service. The
monitoring service was too clunky, the data format was not oriented for activity
tracking, and the polling model for monitoring was not compatible with the push
model for tracking. At the same time, the tracking service was too fragile to use for
metrics, and the batch-oriented processing was not the right model for real-time
monitoring and alerting. However, the monitoring and tracking data shared many
traits, and correlation of the information (such as how specific types of user activity
affected application performance) was highly desirable. A drop in specific types of
user activity could indicate problems with the application that serviced it, but hours
of delay in processing activity batches meant a slow response to these types of issues.
At first, existing off-the-shelf open source solutions were thoroughly investigated to
find a new system that would provide real-time access to the data and scale out to
handle the amount of message traffic needed. Prototype systems were set up using
ActiveMQ, but at the time it could not handle the scale. It was also a fragile solution
for the way LinkedIn needed to use it, discovering many flaws in ActiveMQ that
would cause the brokers to pause. These pauses would back up connections to clients
and interfere with the ability of the applications to serve requests to users. The deci‐
sion was made to move forward with a custom infrastructure for the data pipeline.
The Birth of Kafka
The development team at LinkedIn was led by Jay Kreps, a principal software engi‐
neer who was previously responsible for the development and open source release of
Voldemort, a distributed key-value storage system. The initial team also included
Neha Narkhede and, later, Jun Rao. Together, they set out to create a messaging sys‐
tem that could meet the needs of both the monitoring and tracking systems, and scale
for the future. The primary goals were to:
• Decouple producers and consumers by using a push-pull model
• Provide persistence for message data within the messaging system to allow multi‐
ple consumers
• Optimize for high throughput of messages
• Allow for horizontal scaling of the system to grow as the data streams grew
The result was a publish/subscribe messaging system that had an interface typical of
messaging systems but a storage layer more like a log-aggregation system. Combined
with the adoption of Apache Avro for message serialization, Kafka was effective for
Kafka’s Origin | 15

=== PAGE 45 ===
handling both metrics and user-activity tracking at a scale of billions of messages per
day. The scalability of Kafka has helped LinkedIn’s usage grow in excess of seven tril‐
lion messages produced (as of February 2020) and over five petabytes of data con‐
sumed daily.
Open Source
Kafka was released as an open source project on GitHub in late 2010. As it started to
gain attention in the open source community, it was proposed and accepted as an
Apache Software Foundation incubator project in July of 2011. Apache Kafka gradu‐
ated from the incubator in October of 2012. Since then, it has continuously been
worked on and has found a robust community of contributors and committers out‐
side of LinkedIn. Kafka is now used in some of the largest data pipelines in the world,
including those at Netflix, Uber, and many other companies.
Widespread adoption of Kafka has created a healthy ecosystem around the core
project as well. There are active meetup groups in dozens of countries around the
world, providing local discussion and support of stream processing. There are also
numerous open source projects related to Apache Kafka. LinkedIn continues to
maintain several, including Cruise Control, Kafka Monitor, and Burrow. In addition
to its commercial offerings, Confluent has released projects including ksqlDB, a
schema registry, and a REST proxy under a community license (which is not strictly
open source, as it includes use restrictions). Several of the most popular projects are
listed in Appendix B.
Commercial Engagement
In the fall of 2014, Jay Kreps, Neha Narkhede, and Jun Rao left LinkedIn to found
Confluent, a company centered around providing development, enterprise support,
and training for Apache Kafka. They also joined other companies (such as Heroku) in
providing cloud services for Kafka. Confluent, through a partnership with Google,
provides managed Kafka clusters on Google Cloud Platform, as well as similar serv‐
ices on Amazon Web Services and Azure. One of the other major initiatives of Con‐
fluent is to organize the Kafka Summit conference series. Started in 2016, with
conferences held annually in the United States and London, Kafka Summit provides a
place for the community to come together on a global scale and share knowledge
about Apache Kafka and related projects.
16 | Chapter 1: Meet Kafka

=== PAGE 46 ===
The Name
People often ask how Kafka got its name and if it signifies anything specific about the
application itself. Jay Kreps offered the following insight:
I thought that since Kafka was a system optimized for writing, using a writer’s name
would make sense. I had taken a lot of lit classes in college and liked Franz Kafka. Plus
the name sounded cool for an open source project.
So basically there is not much of a relationship.
Getting Started with Kafka
Now that we know all about Kafka and its history, we can set it up and build our own
data pipeline. In the next chapter, we will explore installing and configuring Kafka.
We will also cover selecting the right hardware to run Kafka on, and some things to
keep in mind when moving to production operations.
Getting Started with Kafka | 17

=== PAGE 48 ===
CHAPTER 2
Installing Kafka
This chapter describes how to get started with the Apache Kafka broker, including
how to set up Apache ZooKeeper, which is used by Kafka for storing metadata for the
brokers. The chapter will also cover basic configuration options for Kafka deploy‐
ments, as well as some suggestions for selecting the correct hardware to run the brok‐
ers on. Finally, we cover how to install multiple Kafka brokers as part of a single
cluster and things you should know when using Kafka in a production environment.
Environment Setup
Before using Apache Kafka, your environment needs to be set up with a few prerequi‐
sites to ensure it runs properly. The following sections will guide you through that
process.
Choosing an Operating System
Apache Kafka is a Java application and can run on many operating systems. While
Kafka is capable of being run on many OSs, including Windows, macOS, Linux, and
others, Linux is the recommended OS for the general use case.  The installation steps
in this chapter will focus on setting up and using Kafka in a Linux environment. For
information on installing Kafka on Windows and macOS, see Appendix A.
Installing Java
Prior to installing either ZooKeeper or Kafka, you will need a Java environment set
up and functioning. Kafka and ZooKeeper work well with all OpenJDK-based Java
implementations, including Oracle JDK. The latest versions of Kafka support both
Java 8 and Java 11. The exact version installed can be the version provided by your OS
or one directly downloaded from the web—for example, the Oracle website for the
19

=== PAGE 49 ===
Oracle version . Though ZooKeeper and Kafka will work with a runtime edition of
Java, it is recommended when developing tools and applications to have the full Java
Development Kit (JDK). It is recommended to install the latest released patch version
of your Java environment, as older versions may have security vulnerabilities. The
installation steps will assume you have installed JDK version 11 update 10 deployed
at /usr/java/jdk-11.0.10.
Installing ZooKeeper
Apache Kafka uses Apache ZooKeeper to store metadata about the Kafka cluster, as
well as consumer client details, as shown in Figure 2-1 . ZooKeeper is a centralized
service for maintaining configuration information, naming, providing distributed
