sumer group. The length of the window depends on the size of the consumer
group as well as on several configuration parameters. Figure 4-6 shows how eager
rebalances have two distinct phases: first, all consumers give up their partition
assigning, and second, after they all complete this and rejoin the group, they get
new partition assignments and can resume consuming.
Figure 4-6. Eager rebalance revokes all partitions, pauses consumption, and reas‐
signs them
Cooperative rebalances
Cooperative rebalances (also called incremental rebalances) typically involve reas‐
signing only a small subset of the partitions from one consumer to another, and
allowing consumers to continue processing records from all the partitions that
are not reassigned. This is achieved by rebalancing in two or more phases.
Kafka Consumer Concepts | 81

=== PAGE 111 ===
Initially, the consumer group leader informs all the consumers that they will lose
ownership of a subset of their partitions, then the consumers stop consuming
from these partitions and give up their ownership in them. In the second phase,
the consumer group leader assigns these now orphaned partitions to their new
owners. This incremental approach may take a few iterations until a stable parti‐
tion assignment is achieved, but it avoids the complete “stop the world” unavaila‐
bility that occurs with the eager approach. This is especially important in large
consumer groups where rebalances can take a significant amount of time.
Figure 4-7  shows how cooperative rebalances are incremental and that only a
subset of the consumers and partitions are involved.
Figure 4-7. Cooperative rebalance only pauses consumption for the subset of parti‐
tions that will be reassigned
Consumers maintain membership in a consumer group and ownership of the parti‐
tions assigned to them by sending heartbeats to a Kafka broker designated as the
group coordinator (this broker can be different for different consumer groups). The
heartbeats are sent by a background thread of the consumer, and as long as the con‐
sumer is sending heartbeats at regular intervals, it is assumed to be alive.
If the consumer stops sending heartbeats for long enough, its session will timeout
and the group coordinator will consider it dead and trigger a rebalance. If a consumer
crashed and stopped processing messages, it will take the group coordinator a few
seconds without heartbeats to decide it is dead and trigger the rebalance. During
those seconds, no messages will be processed from the partitions owned by the dead
consumer. When closing a consumer cleanly, the consumer will notify the group
coordinator that it is leaving, and the group coordinator will trigger a rebalance
immediately, reducing the gap in processing. Later in this chapter, we will discuss
configuration options that control heartbeat frequency, session timeouts, and other
configuration parameters that can be used to fine-tune the consumer behavior.
82 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 112 ===
How Does the Process of Assigning Partitions to Consumers Work?
When a consumer wants to join a group, it sends a JoinGroup
request to the group coordinator. The first consumer to join the
group becomes the group leader. The leader receives a list of all
consumers in the group from the group coordinator (this will
include all consumers that sent a heartbeat recently and that are
therefore considered alive) and is responsible for assigning a subset
of partitions to each consumer. It uses an implementation of
PartitionAssignor to decide which partitions should be handled
by which consumer.
Kafka has few built-in partition assignment policies, which we will
discuss in more depth in the configuration section. After deciding
on the partition assignment, the consumer group leader sends the
list of assignments to the GroupCoordinator, which sends this
information to all the consumers. Each consumer only sees its own
assignment—the leader is the only client process that has the full
list of consumers in the group and their assignments. This process
repeats every time a rebalance happens.
Static Group Membership
By default, the identity of a consumer as a member of its consumer group is transient.
When consumers leave a consumer group, the partitions that were assigned to the
consumer are revoked, and when it rejoins, it is assigned a new member ID and a
new set of partitions through the rebalance protocol.
All this is true unless you configure a consumer with a unique group.instance.id,
which makes the consumer a static member of the group. When a consumer first
joins a consumer group as a static member of the group, it is assigned a set of parti‐
tions according to the partition assignment strategy the group is using, as normal.
However, when this consumer shuts down, it does not automatically leave the
group—it remains a member of the group until its session times out. When the con‐
sumer rejoins the group, it is recognized with its static identity and is reassigned the
same partitions it previously held without triggering a rebalance. The group coordi‐
nator that caches the assignment for each member of the group does not need to trig‐
ger a rebalance but can just send the cache assignment to the rejoining static member.
If two consumers join the same group with the same group.instance.id, the second
consumer will get an error saying that a consumer with this ID already exists.
Static group membership is useful when your application maintains local state or
cache that is populated by the partitions that are assigned to each consumer. When
re-creating this cache is time-consuming, you don’t want this process to happen every
time a consumer restarts. On the flip side, it is important to remember that the
Kafka Consumer Concepts | 83

=== PAGE 113 ===
partitions owned by each consumer will not get reassigned when a consumer is
restarted. For a certain duration, no consumer will consume messages from these
partitions, and when the consumer finally starts back up, it will lag behind the latest
messages in these partitions. Y ou should be confident that the consumer that owns
these partitions will be able to catch up with the lag after the restart.
It is important to note that static members of consumer groups do not leave the
group proactively when they shut down, and detecting when they are “really gone”
depends on the session.timeout.ms configuration. Y ou’ll want to set it high enough
to avoid triggering rebalances on a simple application restart but low enough to allow
automatic reassignment of their partitions when there is more significant downtime,
to avoid large gaps in processing these partitions.
Creating a Kafka Consumer
The first step to start consuming records is to create a KafkaConsumer instance. Cre‐
ating a KafkaConsumer is very similar to creating a KafkaProducer—you create a Java
Properties instance with the properties you want to pass to the consumer. We will
discuss all the properties in depth later in the chapter. To start, we just need to use
the three mandatory properties: bootstrap.servers, key.deserializer, and
value.deserializer.
The first property, bootstrap.servers, is the connection string to a Kafka cluster.
It is used the exact same way as in KafkaProducer (refer to Chapter 3  for details
on how this is defined). The other two properties, key.deserializer and value.
deserializer, are similar to the serializers defined for the producer, but rather
than specifying classes that turn Java objects to byte arrays, you need to specify classes
that can take a byte array and turn it into a Java object.
There is a fourth property, which is not strictly mandatory but very commonly used.
The property is group.id, and it specifies the consumer group the KafkaConsumer
instance belongs to. While it is possible to create consumers that do not belong to any
consumer group, this is uncommon, so for most of the chapter we will assume the
consumer is part of a group.
The following code snippet shows how to create a KafkaConsumer:
Properties props = new Properties();
props.put("bootstrap.servers", "broker1:9092,broker2:9092");
props.put("group.id", "CountryCounter");
props.put("key.deserializer",
    "org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringDeserializer");
props.put("value.deserializer",
    "org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringDeserializer");
84 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 114 ===
KafkaConsumer<String, String> consumer =
    new KafkaConsumer<String, String>(props);
Most of what you see here should be familiar if you’ve read Chapter 3 on creating
producers. We assume that the records we consume will have String objects as both
the key and the value of the record. The only new property here is group.id, which is
the name of the consumer group this consumer belongs to.
Subscribing to Topics
Once we create a consumer, the next step is to subscribe to one or more topics. The
subscribe() method takes a list of topics as a parameter, so it’s pretty simple to use:
consumer.subscribe(Collections.singletonList("customerCountries")); 
Here we simply create a list with a single element: the topic name
customerCountries.
It is also possible to call subscribe with a regular expression. The expression can
match multiple topic names, and if someone creates a new topic with a name that
matches, a rebalance will happen almost immediately and the consumers will start
consuming from the new topic. This is useful for applications that need to consume
from multiple topics and can handle the different types of data the topics will contain.
Subscribing to multiple topics using a regular expression is most commonly used in
applications that replicate data between Kafka and another system or streams pro‐
cessing applications.
For example, to subscribe to all test topics, we can call:
consumer.subscribe(Pattern.compile("test.*"));
If your Kafka cluster has large number of partitions, perhaps
30,000 or more, you should be aware that the filtering of topics for
the subscription is done on the client side. This means that when
you subscribe to a subset of topics via a regular expression rather
than via an explicit list, the consumer will request the list of all top‐
ics and their partitions from the broker in regular intervals. The
client will then use this list to detect new topics that it should
include in its subscription and subscribe to them. When the topic
list is large and there are many consumers, the size of the list of
topics and partitions is significant, and the regular expression sub‐
scription has significant overhead on the broker, client, and net‐
work. There are cases where the bandwidth used by the topic
metadata is larger than the bandwidth used to send data. This also
means that in order to subscribe with a regular expression, the cli‐
ent needs permissions to describe all topics in the cluster—that is, a
full describe grant on the entire cluster.
Subscribing to Topics | 85

=== PAGE 115 ===
The Poll Loop
At the heart of the Consumer API is a simple loop for polling the server for more
data. The main body of a consumer will look as follows:
Duration timeout = Duration.ofMillis(100);
while (true) { 
    ConsumerRecords<String, String> records = consumer.poll(timeout); 
    for (ConsumerRecord<String, String> record : records) { 
        System.out.printf("topic = %s, partition = %d, offset = %d, " +
                        "customer = %s, country = %s\n",
        record.topic(), record.partition(), record.offset(),
                record.key(), record.value());
        int updatedCount = 1;
        if (custCountryMap.containsKey(record.value())) {
            updatedCount = custCountryMap.get(record.value()) + 1;
        }
        custCountryMap.put(record.value(), updatedCount);
        JSONObject json = new JSONObject(custCountryMap);
        System.out.println(json.toString()); 
    }
}
This is indeed an infinite loop. Consumers are usually long-running applications
that continuously poll Kafka for more data. We will show later in the chapter how
to cleanly exit the loop and close the consumer.
This is the most important line in the chapter. The same way that sharks must
keep moving or they die, consumers must keep polling Kafka or they will be con‐
sidered dead and the partitions they are consuming will be handed to another
consumer in the group to continue consuming. The parameter we pass to poll()
is a timeout interval and controls how long poll() will block if data is not avail‐
able in the consumer buffer. If this is set to 0 or if there are records available
already, poll() will return immediately; otherwise, it will wait for the specified
number of milliseconds.
poll() returns a list of records. Each record contains the topic and partition the
