which can show up as subtle errors long after the interruption has passed, such as
when trying to perform a controlled shutdown of a broker. Other applications that
can put stress on the ZooKeeper ensemble, either through heavy usage or improper
operations, should be segregated to their own ensemble.
Summary
In this chapter we learned how to get Apache Kafka up and running. We also covered
picking the right hardware for your brokers, and specific concerns around getting set
up in a production environment. Now that you have a Kafka cluster, we will walk
through the basics of Kafka client applications. The next two chapters will cover how
to create clients for both producing messages to Kafka (Chapter 3) as well as consum‐
ing those messages out again (Chapter 4).
46 | Chapter 2: Installing Kafka

=== PAGE 76 ===
CHAPTER 3
Kafka Producers: Writing
Messages to Kafka
Whether you use Kafka as a queue, message bus, or data storage platform, you will
always use Kafka by creating a producer that writes data to Kafka, a consumer that
reads data from Kafka, or an application that serves both roles.
For example, in a credit card transaction processing system, there will be a client
application, perhaps an online store, responsible for sending each transaction to
Kafka immediately when a payment is made. Another application is responsible for
immediately checking this transaction against a rules engine and determining
whether the transaction is approved or denied. The approve/deny response can then
be written back to Kafka, and the response can propagate back to the online store
where the transaction was initiated. A third application can read both transactions
and the approval status from Kafka and store them in a database where analysts can
later review the decisions and perhaps improve the rules engine.
Apache Kafka ships with built-in client APIs that developers can use when developing
applications that interact with Kafka.
In this chapter we will learn how to use the Kafka producer, starting with an overview
of its design and components. We will show how to create KafkaProducer and
ProducerRecord objects, how to send records to Kafka, and how to handle the errors
that Kafka may return. We’ll then review the most important configuration options
used to control the producer behavior. We’ll conclude with a deeper look at how to
use different partitioning methods and serializers, and how to write your own serial‐
izers and partitioners.
In Chapter 4, we will look at Kafka’s consumer client and reading data from Kafka.
47

=== PAGE 77 ===
Third-Party Clients
In addition to the built-in clients, Kafka has a binary wire protocol.
This means that it is possible for applications to read messages
from Kafka or write messages to Kafka simply by sending the cor‐
rect byte sequences to Kafka’s network port. There are multiple cli‐
ents that implement Kafka’s wire protocol in different
programming languages, giving simple ways to use Kafka not just
in Java applications but also in languages like C++, Python, Go,
and many more. Those clients are not part of the Apache Kafka
project, but a list of non-Java clients is maintained in the project
wiki. The wire protocol and the external clients are outside the
scope of the chapter.
Producer Overview
There are many reasons an application might need to write messages to Kafka:
recording user activities for auditing or analysis, recording metrics, storing log mes‐
sages, recording information from smart appliances, communicating asynchronously
with other applications, buffering information before writing to a database, and much
more.
Those diverse use cases also imply diverse requirements: is every message critical, or
can we tolerate loss of messages? Are we OK with accidentally duplicating messages?
Are there any strict latency or throughput requirements we need to support?
In the credit card transaction processing example we introduced earlier, we can see
that it is critical to never lose a single message or duplicate any messages. Latency
should be low, but latencies up to 500 ms can be tolerated, and throughput should be
very high—we expect to process up to a million messages a second.
A different use case might be to store click information from a website. In that case,
some message loss or a few duplicates can be tolerated; latency can be high as long as
there is no impact on the user experience. In other words, we don’t mind if it takes a
few seconds for the message to arrive at Kafka, as long as the next page loads immedi‐
ately after the user clicks on a link. Throughput will depend on the level of activity we
anticipate on our website.
The different requirements will influence the way you use the producer API to write
messages to Kafka and the configuration you use.
While the producer API is very simple, there is a bit more that goes on under the
hood of the producer when we send data. Figure 3-1 shows the main steps involved in
sending data to Kafka.
48 | Chapter 3: Kafka Producers: Writing Messages to Kafka

=== PAGE 78 ===
Figure 3-1. High-level overview of Kafka producer components
We start producing messages to Kafka by creating a ProducerRecord, which must
include the topic we want to send the record to and a value. Optionally, we can also
specify a key, a partition, a timestamp, and/or a collection of headers. Once we send
the ProducerRecord, the first thing the producer will do is serialize the key and value
objects to byte arrays so they can be sent over the network.
Next, if we didn’t explicitly specify a partition, the data is sent to a partitioner. The
partitioner will choose a partition for us, usually based on the ProducerRecord key. 
Once a partition is selected, the producer knows which topic and partition the record
will go to. It then adds the record to a batch of records that will also be sent to the
same topic and partition. A separate thread is responsible for sending those batches
of records to the appropriate Kafka brokers.
When the broker receives the messages, it sends back a response. If the messages
were successfully written to Kafka, it will return a RecordMetadata object with the
topic, partition, and the offset of the record within the partition. If the broker failed
Producer Overview | 49

=== PAGE 79 ===
to write the messages, it will return an error. When the producer receives an error, it
may retry sending the message a few more times before giving up and returning an
error.
Constructing a Kafka Producer
The first step in writing messages to Kafka is to create a producer object with the
properties you want to pass to the producer. A Kafka producer has three mandatory
properties:
bootstrap.servers
List of host:port pairs of brokers that the producer will use to establish initial
connection to the Kafka cluster. This list doesn’t need to include all brokers, since
the producer will get more information after the initial connection. But it is rec‐
ommended to include at least two, so in case one broker goes down, the producer
will still be able to connect to the cluster.
key.serializer
Name of a class that will be used to serialize the keys of the records we will pro‐
duce to Kafka. Kafka brokers expect byte arrays as keys and values of messages.
However, the producer interface allows, using parameterized types, any Java
object to be sent as a key and value. This makes for very readable code, but it
also means that the producer has to know how to convert these objects to byte
arrays. key.serializer should be set to a name of a class that implements the
org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.Serializer interface. The producer
will use this class to serialize the key object to a byte array. The Kafka client pack‐
age includes ByteArraySerializer (which doesn’t do much), String
Serializer, IntegerSerializer, and much more, so if you use common types,
there is no need to implement your own serializers. Setting key.serializer is
required even if you intend to send only values, but you can use the Void type for
the key and the VoidSerializer.
value.serializer
Name of a class that will be used to serialize the values of the records we will pro‐
duce to Kafka. The same way you set key.serializer to a name of a class that
will serialize the message key object to a byte array, you set value.serializer to
a class that will serialize the message value object.
The following code snippet shows how to create a new producer by setting just the
mandatory parameters and using defaults for everything else:
Properties kafkaProps = new Properties(); 
kafkaProps.put("bootstrap.servers", "broker1:9092,broker2:9092");
kafkaProps.put("key.serializer",
50 | Chapter 3: Kafka Producers: Writing Messages to Kafka

=== PAGE 80 ===
    "org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringSerializer"); 
kafkaProps.put("value.serializer",
    "org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringSerializer");
producer = new KafkaProducer<String, String>(kafkaProps); 
We start with a Properties object.
Since we plan on using strings for message key and value, we use the built-in
StringSerializer.
Here we create a new producer by setting the appropriate key and value types
and passing the Properties object.
With such a simple interface, it is clear that most of the control over producer behav‐
ior is done by setting the correct configuration properties. Apache Kafka documenta‐
tion covers all the configuration options, and we will go over the important ones later
in this chapter.
Once we instantiate a producer, it is time to start sending messages. There are three
primary methods of sending messages:
Fire-and-forget
We send a message to the server and don’t really care if it arrives successfully or
not. Most of the time, it will arrive successfully, since Kafka is highly available
and the producer will retry sending messages automatically. However, in case of
nonretriable errors or timeout, messages will get lost and the application will not
get any information or exceptions about this.
Synchronous send
Technically, Kafka producer is always asynchronous—we send a message and the
send() method returns a Future object. However, we use get() to wait on the
Future and see if the send() was successful or not before sending the next
record.
Asynchronous send
We call the send() method with a callback function, which gets triggered when it
receives a response from the Kafka broker.
In the examples that follow, we will see how to send messages using these methods
and how to handle the different types of errors that might occur.
While all the examples in this chapter are single threaded, a producer object can be
used by multiple threads to send messages.
Constructing a Kafka Producer | 51

=== PAGE 81 ===
Sending a Message to Kafka
The simplest way to send a message is as follows:
ProducerRecord<String, String> record =
    new ProducerRecord<>("CustomerCountry", "Precision Products",
        "France"); 
try {
    producer.send(record); 
} catch (Exception e) {
    e.printStackTrace(); 
}
The producer accepts ProducerRecord objects, so we start by creating one.
ProducerRecord has multiple constructors, which we will discuss later. Here we
use one that requires the name of the topic we are sending data to, which is
always a string, and the key and value we are sending to Kafka, which in this case
are also strings. The types of the key and value must match our key serializer
and value serializer objects.
We use the producer object send() method to send the ProducerRecord. As
we’ve seen in the producer architecture diagram in Figure 3-1, the message will
be placed in a buffer and will be sent to the broker in a separate thread. The
send() method returns a Java Future object with RecordMetadata, but since we
simply ignore the returned value, we have no way of knowing whether the mes‐
sage was sent successfully or not. This method of sending messages can be used
when dropping a message silently is acceptable. This is not typically the case in
production applications.
While we ignore errors that may occur while sending messages to Kafka brokers
