continuous but nonblocking processing.
It is important to note that the definition doesn’t mandate any specific framework,
API, or feature. As long as we are continuously reading data from an unbounded
dataset, doing something to it, and emitting output, we are doing stream processing.
But the processing has to be continuous and ongoing. A process that starts every day
at 2:00 a.m., reads 500 records from the stream, outputs a result, and goes away
doesn’t quite cut it as far as stream processing goes.
Stream Processing Concepts
Stream processing is very similar to any type of data processing—we write code that
receives data, does something with the data (a few transformations, aggregates,
enrichments, etc.), and then place the result somewhere. However, there are some key
concepts that are unique to stream processing and often cause confusion when some‐
one who has data processing experience first attempts to write stream processing
applications. Let’s take a look at a few of those concepts.
Topology
A stream processing application includes one or more processing topologies. A pro‐
cessing topology starts with one or more source streams that are passed through a
graph of stream processors connected through event streams, until results are written
Stream Processing Concepts | 385

=== PAGE 415 ===
to one or more sink streams. Each stream processor is a computational step applied
to the stream of events in order to transform the events. Examples of some stream
processors we’ll use in our examples are filter, count, group-by, and left-join. We
often visualize stream processing applications by drawing the processing nodes and
connecting them with arrows to show how events flow from one node to the next as
the application is processing data.
Time
Time is probably the most important concept in stream processing and often the
most confusing. For an idea of how complex time can get when discussing distributed
systems, we recommend Justin Sheehy’s excellent paper, “There Is No Now” . In the
context of stream processing, having a common notion of time is critical because
most stream applications perform operations on time windows. For example, our
stream application might calculate a moving five-minute average of stock prices. In
that case, we need to know what to do when one of our producers goes offline for two
hours due to network issues and returns with two hours’ worth of data—most of the
data will be relevant for five-minute time windows that have long passed and for
which the result was already calculated and stored.
Stream processing systems typically refer to the following notions of time:
Event time
This is the time the events we are tracking occurred and the record was created—
the time a measurement was taken, an item was sold at a shop, a user viewed a
page on our website, etc. In version 0.10.0 and later, Kafka automatically adds the
current time to producer records at the time they are created. If this does not
match the application’s notion of event time, such as in cases where the Kafka
record is created based on a database record sometime after the event occurred,
then we recommend adding the event time as a field in the record itself so that
both timestamps will be available for later processing. Event time is usually the
time that matters most when processing stream data.
Log append time
This is the time the event arrived at the Kafka broker and was stored there, also
called ingestion time. In version 0.10.0 and later, Kafka brokers will automatically
add this time to records they receive if Kafka is configured to do so or if the
records arrive from older producers and contain no timestamps. This notion of
time is typically less relevant for stream processing, since we are usually interes‐
ted in the times the events occurred. For example, if we calculate the number of
devices produced per day, we want to count devices that were actually produced
on that day, even if there were network issues and the event only arrived to Kafka
the following day. However, in cases where the real event time was not recorded,
log append time can still be used consistently because it does not change after the
386 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 416 ===
record was created, and assuming no delays in the pipeline, it can be a reasonable
approximation of event time.
Processing time
This is the time at which a stream processing application received the event in
order to perform some calculation. This time can be milliseconds, hours, or days
after the event occurred. This notion of time assigns different timestamps to the
same event depending on exactly when each stream processing application hap‐
pened to read the event. It can even differ for two threads in the same applica‐
tion! Therefore, this notion of time is highly unreliable and best avoided.
Kafka Streams assigns time to each event based on the TimestampExtractor inter‐
face. Developers of Kafka Streams applications can use different implementations of
this interface, which can use either of the three time semantics explained previously
or a completely different choice of timestamp, including extracting a timestamp from
the contents of the event itself.
When Kafka Streams writes output to a Kafka topic, it assigns a timestamp to each
event based on the following rules:
• When the output record maps directly to an input record, the output record will
use the same timestamp as the input.
• When the output record is a result of an aggregation, the timestamp of the out‐
put record will be the maximum timestamp used in the aggregation.
• When the output record is a result of joining two streams, the timestamp of the
output record is the largest of the two records being joined. When a stream and a
table are joined, the timestamp from the stream record is used.
• Finally, if the output record was generated by a Kafka Streams function that gen‐
erates data in a specific schedule regardless of input, such as punctuate(), the
output timestamp will depend on the current internal times of the stream pro‐
cessing app.
When using the Kafka Streams lower-level processing API rather than the DSL, Kafka
Streams includes APIs for manipulating the timestamps of records directly, so devel‐
opers can implement timestamp semantics that match the required business logic of
the application.
Stream Processing Concepts | 387

=== PAGE 417 ===
Mind the Time Zone
When working with time, it is important to be mindful of time
zones. The entire data pipeline should standardize on a single time
zone; otherwise, results of stream operations will be confusing and
often meaningless. If you must handle data streams with different
time zones, you need to make sure you can convert events to a sin‐
gle time zone before performing operations on time windows.
Often this means storing the time zone in the record itself.
State
As long as we only need to process each event individually, stream processing is a
very simple activity. For example, if all we need to do is read a stream of online shop‐
ping transactions from Kafka, find the transactions over $10,000, and email the rele‐
vant salesperson, we can probably write this in just few lines of code using a Kafka
consumer and SMTP library.
Stream processing becomes really interesting when we have operations that involve
multiple events: counting the number of events by type, moving averages, joining two
streams to create an enriched stream of information, etc. In those cases, it is not
enough to look at each event by itself; we need to keep track of more information—
how many events of each type did we see this hour, all events that require joining,
sums, averages, etc. We call this information a state.
It is often tempting to store the state in variables that are local to the stream process‐
ing app, such as a simple hash table to store moving counts. In fact, we did just that in
many examples in this book. However, this is not a reliable approach for managing
state in stream processing because when the stream processing application is stopped
or crashes, the state is lost, which changes the results. This is usually not the desired
outcome, so care should be taken to persist the most recent state and recover it when
restarting the application.
Stream processing refers to several types of state:
Local or internal state
State that is accessible only by a specific instance of the stream processing appli‐
cation. This state is usually maintained and managed with an embedded, in-
memory database running within the application. The advantage of local state is
that it is extremely fast. The disadvantage is that we are limited to the amount of
memory available. As a result, many of the design patterns in stream processing
focus on ways to partition the data into substreams that can be processed using a
limited amount of local state.
388 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 418 ===
External state
State that is maintained in an external data store, often a NoSQL system like Cas‐
sandra. The advantages of an external state are its virtually unlimited size and the
fact that it can be accessed from multiple instances of the application or even
from different applications. The downside is the extra latency and complexity
introduced with an additional system, as well as availability—the application
needs to handle the possibility that the external system is not available. Most
stream processing apps try to avoid having to deal with an external store, or at
least limit the latency overhead by caching information in the local state and
communicating with the external store as rarely as possible. This usually introdu‐
ces challenges with maintaining consistency between the internal and external
state.
Stream-Table Duality
We are all familiar with database tables. A table is a collection of records, each identi‐
fied by its primary key and containing a set of attributes as defined by a schema.
Table records are mutable (i.e., tables allow update and delete operations). Querying a
table allows checking the state of the data at a specific point in time. For example, by
querying the CUSTOMERS_CONTACTS table in a database, we expect to find current con‐
tact details for all our customers. Unless the table was specifically designed to include
history, we will not find their past contacts in the table.
Unlike tables, streams contain a history of changes. A stream is a string of events
wherein each event caused a change. A table contains a current state of the world,
which is the result of many changes. From this description, it is clear that streams and
tables are two sides of the same coin—the world always changes, and sometimes we
are interested in the events that caused those changes, whereas other times we are
interested in the current state of the world. Systems that allow us to transition back
and forth between the two ways of looking at data are more powerful than systems
that support just one.
To convert a table to a stream, we need to capture the changes that modify the table.
Take all those insert, update, and delete events and store them in a stream. Most
databases offer change data capture (CDC) solutions for capturing these changes, and
there are many Kafka connectors that can pipe those changes into Kafka where they
will be available for stream processing.
To convert a stream to a table, we need to apply all the changes that the stream con‐
tains. This is also called materializing the stream. We create a table, either in memory,
in an internal state store, or in an external database, and start going over all the events
in the stream from beginning to end, changing the state as we go. When we finish, we
have a table representing a state at a specific time that we can use.
Stream Processing Concepts | 389

=== PAGE 419 ===
Suppose we have a store selling shoes. A stream representation of our retail activity
can be a stream of events:
“Shipment arrived with red, blue, and green shoes. ”
“Blue shoes sold. ”
“Red shoes sold. ”
“Blue shoes returned. ”
“Green shoes sold. ”
If we want to know what our inventory contains right now or how much money we
made until now, we need to materialize the view. Figure 14-1 shows that we currently
have 299 red shoes. If we want to know how busy the store is, we can look at the
entire stream and see that there were four customer events today. We may also want
to investigate why the blue shoes were returned.
Figure 14-1. Materializing inventory changes
Time Windows
Most operations on streams are windowed operations, operating on slices of time:
moving averages, top products sold this week, 99th percentile load on the system, etc.
Join operations on two streams are also windowed—we join events that occurred at
the same slice of time. Very few people stop and think about the type of window they
want for their operations. For example, when calculating moving averages, we want to
know:
Size of the window
Do we want to calculate the average of all events in every five-minute window?
Every 15-minute window? Or the entire day? Larger windows are smoother but
