as a backup for simple configurations but is a deprecated config. The example config‐
uration file starts Kafka with a listener on TCP port 9092. The new listeners config
is a comma-separated list of URIs that we listen on with the listener names. If the lis‐
tener name is not a common security protocol, then another config
listener.security.protocol.map must also be configured. A listener is defined as
<protocol>://<hostname>:<port>. An example of a legal listener config is PLAIN
TEXT://localhost:9092,SSL://:9091. Specifying the hostname as 0.0.0.0 will
bind to all interfaces. Leaving the hostname empty will bind it to the default interface.
Keep in mind that if a port lower than 1024 is chosen, Kafka must be started as root.
Running Kafka as root is not a recommended configuration.
zookeeper.connect
The location of the ZooKeeper used for storing the broker metadata is set using the
zookeeper.connect configuration parameter. The example configuration uses a Zoo‐
Keeper running on port 2181 on the local host, which is specified as localhost:2181.
The format for this parameter is a semicolon-separated list of hostname:port/path
strings, which include:
hostname
The hostname or IP address of the ZooKeeper server.
Configuring the Broker | 25

=== PAGE 55 ===
port
The client port number for the server.
/path
An optional ZooKeeper path to use as a chroot environment for the Kafka clus‐
ter. If it is omitted, the root path is used.
If a chroot path (a path designated to act as the root directory for a given application)
is specified and does not exist, it will be created by the broker when it starts up.
Why Use a Chroot Path?
It is generally considered to be good practice to use a chroot path
for the Kafka cluster. This allows the ZooKeeper ensemble to be
shared with other applications, including other Kafka clusters,
without a conflict. It is also best to specify multiple ZooKeeper
servers (which are all part of the same ensemble) in this configura‐
tion. This allows the Kafka broker to connect to another member
of the ZooKeeper ensemble in the event of server failure.
log.dirs
Kafka persists all messages to disk, and these log segments are stored in the directory
specified in the log.dir configuration. For multiple directories, the config log.dirs
is preferable. If this value is not set, it will default back to log.dir. log.dirs is a
comma-separated list of paths on the local system. If more than one path is specified,
the broker will store partitions on them in a “least-used” fashion, with one partition’s
log segments stored within the same path. Note that the broker will place a new parti‐
tion in the path that has the least number of partitions currently stored in it, not the
least amount of disk space used, so an even distribution of data across multiple direc‐
tories is not guaranteed.
num.recovery.threads.per.data.dir
Kafka uses a configurable pool of threads for handling log segments.  Currently, this
thread pool is used:
• When starting normally, to open each partition’s log segments
• When starting after a failure, to check and truncate each partition’s log segments
• When shutting down, to cleanly close log segments
By default, only one thread per log directory is used. As these threads are only used
during startup and shutdown, it is reasonable to set a larger number of threads in
order to parallelize operations. Specifically, when recovering from an unclean shut‐
down, this can mean the difference of several hours when restarting a broker with a
26 | Chapter 2: Installing Kafka

=== PAGE 56 ===
large number of partitions! When setting this parameter, remember that the number
configured is per log directory specified with log.dirs. This means that if num.
recovery.threads.per.data.dir is set to 8, and there are 3 paths specified in
log.dirs, this is a total of 24 threads.
auto.create.topics.enable
The default Kafka configuration specifies that the broker should automatically create
a topic under the following circumstances:
• When a producer starts writing messages to the topic
• When a consumer starts reading messages from the topic
• When any client requests metadata for the topic
In many situations, this can be undesirable behavior, especially as there is no way to
validate the existence of a topic through the Kafka protocol without causing it to be
created. If you are managing topic creation explicitly, whether manually or through a
provisioning system, you can set the auto.create.topics.enable configuration to
false.
auto.leader.rebalance.enable
In order to ensure a Kafka cluster doesn’t become unbalanced by having all topic
leadership on one broker, this config can be specified to ensure leadership is balanced
as much as possible. It enables a background thread that checks the distribution
of partitions at regular intervals (this interval is configurable via leader.
imbalance.check.interval.seconds). If leadership imbalance exceeds another con‐
fig, leader.imbalance.per.broker.percentage, then a rebalance of preferred lead‐
ers for partitions is started.
delete.topic.enable
Depending on your environment and data retention guidelines, you may wish to lock
down a cluster to prevent arbitrary deletions of topics. Disabling topic deletion can
be set by setting this flag to false.
Topic Defaults
The Kafka server configuration specifies many default configurations for topics that
are created. Several of these parameters, including partition counts and message
retention, can be set per topic using the administrative tools (covered in Chapter 12).
The defaults in the server configuration should be set to baseline values that are
appropriate for the majority of the topics in the cluster.
Configuring the Broker | 27

=== PAGE 57 ===
Using Per-Topic Overrides
In older versions of Kafka, it was possible to specify per-topic over‐
rides for these configurations in the broker configuration using the
parameters log.retention.hours.per.topic, log.retention.
bytes.per.topic, and log.segment.bytes.per.topic. These
parameters are no longer supported, and overrides must be speci‐
fied using the administrative tools.
num.partitions
The num.partitions parameter determines how many partitions a new topic is cre‐
ated with, primarily when automatic topic creation is enabled (which is the default
setting). This parameter defaults to one partition. Keep in mind that the number of
partitions for a topic can only be increased, never decreased. This means that if a
topic needs to have fewer partitions than num.partitions, care will need to be taken
to manually create the topic (discussed in Chapter 12).
As described in Chapter 1, partitions are the way a topic is scaled within a Kafka clus‐
ter, which makes it important to use partition counts that will balance the message
load across the entire cluster as brokers are added. Many users will have the partition
count for a topic be equal to, or a multiple of, the number of brokers in the cluster.
This allows the partitions to be evenly distributed to the brokers, which will evenly
distribute the message load. For example, a topic with 10 partitions operating in a
Kafka cluster with 10 hosts with leadership balanced among all 10 hosts will have
optimal throughput. This is not a requirement, however, as you can also balance mes‐
sage load in other ways, such as having multiple topics.
How to Choose the Number of Partitions
There are several factors to consider when choosing the number of partitions:
• What is the throughput you expect to achieve for the topic? For example, do you
expect to write 100 KBps or 1 GBps?
• What is the maximum throughput you expect to achieve when consuming from
a single partition? A partition will always be consumed completely by a single
consumer (even when not using consumer groups, the consumer must read all
messages in the partition). If you know that your slower consumer writes the
data to a database and this database never handles more than 50 MBps from each
thread writing to it, then you know you are limited to 50 MBps throughput when
consuming from a partition.
• Y ou can go through the same exercise to estimate the maximum throughput per
producer for a single partition, but since producers are typically much faster than
consumers, it is usually safe to skip this.
28 | Chapter 2: Installing Kafka

=== PAGE 58 ===
• If you are sending messages to partitions based on keys, adding partitions later
can be very challenging, so calculate throughput based on your expected future
usage, not the current usage.
• Consider the number of partitions you will place on each broker and available
diskspace and network bandwidth per broker.
• Avoid overestimating, as each partition uses memory and other resources on the
broker and will increase the time for metadata updates and leadership transfers.
• Will you be mirroring data? Y ou may need to consider the throughput of your
mirroring configuration as well. Large partitions can become a bottleneck in
many mirroring configurations.
• If you are using cloud services, do you have IOPS (input/output operations per
second) limitations on your VMs or disks? There may be hard caps on the num‐
ber of IOPS allowed depending on your cloud service and VM configuration that
will cause you to hit quotas. Having too many partitions can have the side effect
of increasing the amount of IOPS due to the parallelism involved.
With all this in mind, it’s clear that you want many partitions, but not too many. If
you have some estimate regarding the target throughput of the topic and the expected
throughput of the consumers, you can divide the target throughput by the expected
consumer throughput and derive the number of partitions this way. So if we want to
be able to write and read 1 GBps from a topic, and we know each consumer can only
process 50 MBps, then we know we need at least 20 partitions. This way, we can have
20 consumers reading from the topic and achieve 1 GBps.
If you don’t have this detailed information, our experience suggests that limiting the
size of the partition on the disk to less than 6 GB per day of retention often gives sat‐
isfactory results. Starting small and expanding as needed is easier than starting too
large.
default.replication.factor
If auto-topic creation is enabled, this configuration sets what the replication factor
should be for new topics. Replication strategy can vary depending on the desired
durability or availability of a cluster and will be discussed more in later chapters. The
following is a brief recommendation if you are running Kafka in a cluster that will
prevent outages due to factors outside of Kafka’s internal capabilities, such as hard‐
ware failures.
It is highly recommended to set the replication factor to at least 1 above the
min.insync.replicas setting. For more fault-resistant settings, if you have large
enough clusters and enough hardware, setting your replication factor to 2 above the
min.insync.replicas (abbreviated as RF++) can be preferable. RF++ will allow eas‐
ier maintenance and prevent outages. The reasoning behind this recommendation is
Configuring the Broker | 29

=== PAGE 59 ===
to allow for one planned outage within the replica set and one unplanned outage to
occur simultaneously. For a typical cluster, this would mean you’ d have a minimum of
three replicas of every partition. An example of this is if there is a network switch
outage, disk failure, or some other unplanned problem during a rolling deployment
or upgrade of Kafka or the underlying OS, you can be assured there will still be an
additional replica available. This will be discussed more in Chapter 7.
log.retention.ms
The most common configuration for how long Kafka will retain messages is by time.
The default is specified in the configuration file using the log.retention.hours
parameter, and it is set to 168 hours, or one week. However, there are two other
parameters allowed, log.retention.minutes and log.retention.ms. All three of
these control the same goal (the amount of time after which messages may be
deleted), but the recommended parameter to use is log.retention.ms, as the smaller
unit size will take precedence if more than one is specified. This will ensure that the
value set for log.retention.ms is always the one used. If more than one is specified,
the smaller unit size will take precedence.
Retention by Time and Last Modified Times
Retention by time is performed by examining the last modified
time (mtime) on each log segment file on disk. Under normal clus‐
ter operations, this is the time that the log segment was closed, and
represents the timestamp of the last message in the file. However,
when using administrative tools to move partitions between brok‐
ers, this time is not accurate and will result in excess retention for
these partitions. For more information on this, see Chapter 12 dis‐
