                    StreamJoined.with(Serdes.Integer(),  
                                      new UserActivitySerde(),
                                      new SearchSerde()));
First, we create a streams objects for the two streams we want to join—clicks and
searches. When we create the stream object, we pass the input topic and the key
and value Serde that will be used when consuming records out of the topic and
deserializing them into input objects.
We also define a KTable for the user profiles. A KTable is a materialized store that
is updated through a stream of changes.
Then we enrich the stream of clicks with user profile information by joining the
stream of events with the profile table. In a stream-table join, each event in the
stream receives information from the cached copy of the profile table. We are
doing a left-join, so clicks without a known user will be preserved.
This is the join method—it takes two values, one from the stream and one from
the record, and returns a third value. Unlike in databases, we get to decide how to
combine the two values into one result. In this case, we created one activity
object that contains both the user details and the page viewed.
Next, we want to join the click information with searches performed by the same
user. This is still a left join, but now we are joining two streams, not streaming to
a table.
This is the join method—we simply add the search terms to all the matching
page views.
This is the interesting part—a stream-to-stream join is a join with a time window.
Joining all clicks and searches for each user doesn’t make much sense—we want
to join each search with clicks that are related to it, that is, clicks that occurred a
short period of time after the search. So we define a join window of one second.
We invoke of to create a window of one second before and after each search, and
then we call before with a zero-seconds interval to make sure we only join clicks
that happen one second after each search and not before. The results will include
relevant clicks, search terms, and the user profile. This will allow a full analysis of
searches and their results.
We define the Serde of the join result here. This includes a Serde for the key that
both sides of the join have in common and the Serde for both values that will be
included in the result of the join. In this case, the key is the user ID, so we use a
simple Integer Serde.
Kafka Streams by Example | 409

=== PAGE 439 ===
After we define the flow, we use it to generate a KafkaStreams object and run it, just
like we did in “Word Count” on page 402.
This example shows two different join patterns possible in stream processing. One
joins a stream with a table to enrich all streaming events with information in the
table. This is similar to joining a fact table with a dimension when running queries on
a data warehouse. The second example joins two streams based on a time window.
This operation is unique to stream processing.
As usual, you can find the complete example, including instructions for running it,
on GitHub.
Kafka Streams: Architecture Overview
The examples in the previous section demonstrated how to use the Kafka Streams
API to implement a few well-known stream processing design patterns. But to under‐
stand better how Kafka’s Streams library actually works and scales, we need to peek
under the covers and understand some of the design principles behind the API.
Building a Topology
Every streams application implements and executes one topology. Topology (also
called DAG, or directed acyclic graph, in other stream processing frameworks) is a set
of operations and transitions that every event moves through from input to output.
Figure 14-10 shows the topology in “Word Count” on page 402.
Figure 14-10. Topology for the word-count stream processing example
Even a simple app has a nontrivial topology. The topology is made up of processors—
those are the nodes in the topology graph (represented by circles in our diagram).
Most processors implement an operation of the data—filter, map, aggregate, etc.
There are also source processors, which consume data from a topic and pass it on,
and sink processors, which take data from earlier processors and produce it to a
410 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 440 ===
topic. A topology always starts with one or more source processors and finishes with
one or more sink processors.
Optimizing a Topology
By default, Kafka Streams executes applications that were built with the DSL API by
mapping each DSL method independently to a lower-level equivalent.  By evaluating
each DSL method independently, opportunities to optimize the overall resulting top‐
ology were missed.
However, note that the execution of a Kafka Streams application is a three-step
process:
1. The logical topology is defined by creating KStream and KTable objects and per‐
forming DSL operations, such as filter and join, on them.
2. StreamsBuilder.build() generates a physical topology from the logical
topology.
3. KafkaStreams.start() executes the topology—this is where data is consumed,
processed, and produced.
The second step, where the physical topology is generated from the logical defini‐
tions, is where overall optimizations to the plan can be applied.
Currently, Apache Kafka only contains a few optimizations, mostly around reusing
topics where possible. These can be enabled by setting StreamsConfig.
TOPOLOGY_OPTIMIZATION to StreamsConfig.OPTIMIZE and calling build(props). If
you only call build() without passing the config, optimization is still disabled. It is
recommended to test applications with and without optimizations and to compare
execution times and volumes of data written to Kafka, and of course, validate that the
results are identical in various known scenarios.
Testing a Topology
Generally speaking, we want to test software before using it in scenarios where its
successful execution is important. Automated testing is considered the gold standard.
Repeatable tests that are evaluated every time a change is made to a software applica‐
tion or library enable fast iterations and easier troubleshooting.
We want to apply the same kind of methodology to our Kafka Streams applications.
In addition to automated end-to-end tests that run the stream processing application
against a staging environment with generated data, we’ll want to also include faster,
lighter-weight, and easier-to-debug unit and integration tests.
Kafka Streams: Architecture Overview | 411

=== PAGE 441 ===
The main testing tool for Kafka Streams applications is TopologyTestDriver. Since
its introduction in version 1.1.0, its API has undergone significant improvements,
and versions since 2.4 are convenient and easy to use. These tests look like normal
unit tests. We define input data, produce it to mock input topics, run the topology
with the test driver, read the results from mock output topics, and validate the result
by comparing it to expected values.
We recommend using the TopologyTestDriver for testing stream processing applica‐
tions, but since it does not simulate Kafka Streams caching behavior (an optimization
not discussed in this book, entirely unrelated to the state store itself, which is simula‐
ted by this framework), there are entire classes of errors that it will not detect.
Unit tests are typically complemented by integration tests, and for Kafka Streams,
there are two popular integration test frameworks: EmbeddedKafkaCluster and Test
containers. The former runs Kafka brokers inside the JVM that runs the tests, while
the latter runs Docker containers with Kafka brokers (and many other components,
as needed for the tests). Testcontainers is recommended, since by using Docker it
fully isolates Kafka, its dependencies, and its resource usage from the application we
are trying to test.
This is just a short overview of Kafka Streams testing methodologies. We recommend
reading the “Testing Kafka Streams—A Deep Dive” blog post for deeper explanations
and detailed code examples of topologies and tests.
Scaling a Topology
Kafka Streams scales by allowing multiple threads of executions within one instance
of the application and by supporting load balancing between distributed instances of
the application. We can run the Streams application on one machine with multiple
threads or on multiple machines; in either case, all active threads in the application
will balance the work involved in data processing.
The Streams engine parallelizes execution of a topology by splitting it into tasks.  The
number of tasks is determined by the Streams engine and depends on the number of
partitions in the topics that the application processes. Each task is responsible for a
subset of the partitions: the task will subscribe to those partitions and consume events
from them. For every event it consumes, the task will execute all the processing steps
that apply to this partition in order before eventually writing the result to the sink.
Those tasks are the basic unit of parallelism in Kafka Streams, because each task can
execute independently of others. See Figure 14-11.
412 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 442 ===
Figure 14-11. Two tasks running the same topology—one for each partition in the input
topic
The developer of the application can choose the number of threads each application
instance will execute. If multiple threads are available, every thread will execute a
subset of the tasks that the application creates. If multiple instances of the application
are running on multiple servers, different tasks will execute for each thread on each
server. This is the way streaming applications scale: we will have as many tasks as we
have partitions in the topics we are processing. If we want to process faster, add more
threads. If we run out of resources on the server, start another instance of the applica‐
tion on another server. Kafka will automatically coordinate work—it will assign each
task its own subset of partitions, and each task will independently process events
from those partitions and maintain its own local state with relevant aggregates if the
topology requires this. See Figure 14-12.
Sometimes a processing step may require input from multiple partitions, which could
create dependencies between tasks. For example, if we join two streams, as we did in
the ClickStream example in “ClickStream Enrichment” on page 408, we need data
from a partition in each stream before we can emit a result. Kafka Streams handles
this situation by assigning all the partitions needed for one join to the same task so
that the task can consume from all the relevant partitions and perform the join inde‐
pendently. This is why Kafka Streams currently requires that all topics that participate
in a join operation have the same number of partitions and be partitioned based on
the join key.
Kafka Streams: Architecture Overview | 413

=== PAGE 443 ===
Figure 14-12. The stream processing tasks can run on multiple threads and multiple
servers
Another example of dependencies between tasks is when our application requires
repartitioning. For instance, in the ClickStream example, all our events are keyed by
the user ID. But what if we want to generate statistics per page? Or per zip code?
Kafka Streams will repartition the data by zip code and run an aggregation of the data
with the new partitions. If task 1 processes the data from partition 1 and reaches a
processor that repartitions the data ( groupBy operation), it will need to shuffle, or
send events to other tasks. Unlike other stream processor frameworks, Kafka Streams
repartitions by writing the events to a new topic with new keys and partitions. Then
another set of tasks reads events from the new topic and continues processing. The
repartitioning steps break our topology into two subtopologies, each with its own
tasks. The second set of tasks depends on the first, because it processes the results of
the first subtopology. However, the first and second sets of tasks can still run inde‐
pendently and in parallel because the first set of tasks writes data into a topic at its
own rate and the second set consumes from the topic and processes the events on its
own. There is no communication and no shared resources between the tasks, and
they don’t need to run on the same threads or servers. This is one of the more useful
414 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 444 ===
things Kafka does—reduce dependencies between different parts of a pipeline. See
Figure 14-13.
Figure 14-13. Two sets of tasks processing events with a topic for repartitioning events
between them
Surviving Failures
The same model that allows us to scale our application also allows us to gracefully
handle failures. First, Kafka is highly available, and therefore the data we persist to
Kafka is also highly available. So if the application fails and needs to restart, it can
look up its last position in the stream from Kafka and continue its processing from
the last offset it committed before failing. Note that if the local state store is lost (e.g.,
because we needed to replace the server it was stored on), the streams application can
always re-create it from the change log it stores in Kafka.
Kafka Streams also leverages Kafka’s consumer coordination to provide high availa‐
bility for tasks. If a task failed but there are threads or other instances of the streams
application that are active, the task will restart on one of the available threads. This is
