137
restricted access for security of authoriza‐
tion, 297
securing, 299-301
authorization, 301
SSL, 300
zookeeper.connect parameter, 25, 38
zookeeper.session.timeout.ms parameter, 168
Index | 455

=== PAGE 485 ===
About the Authors
Gwen Shapira is an engineering leader at Confluent, leading the cloud native Kafka
team, which focuses on making Kafka more elastic, scalable, and multitenant for
Confluent Cloud. She has 15 years of experience working with code and customers to
build scalable data architectures. Gwen is a frequent presenter at industry conferences
and a PMC member on the Apache Kafka project.
Todd Palino is a principal staff engineer in site reliability at LinkedIn, tackling the
challenges of managing capacity and efficiency for the entire platform. Previously, he
was responsible for architecture, day-to-day operations, and tools development for
Kafka and ZooKeeper at LinkedIn, including the creation of an advanced monitoring
and notification system. Todd is the developer of the open source project Burrow, a
Kafka consumer monitoring tool, and can be found sharing his experience on SRE at
industry conferences and tech talks. Todd has spent over 20 years in the technology
industry running infrastructure services, including as a Systems Engineer at Verisign,
developing service management automation for DNS, networking, and hardware
management, as well as managing hardware and software standards across the
company.
Rajini Sivaram is a principal engineer at Confluent, designing and developing cross-
cluster replication features for Kafka and security features for Confluent Platform and
Confluent Cloud. She is an Apache Kafka Committer and member of the Apache
Kafka Program Management Committee. Prior to joining Confluent, she was at Pivo‐
tal, building a high-performance reactive API for Kafka based on Project Reactor.
Earlier, Rajini was at IBM working on Kafka-as-a-Service for the IBM Bluemix plat‐
form. Her experience ranges from parallel and distributed systems to Java virtual
machines and messaging systems.
Krit Petty is the site reliability engineering manager for Kafka at LinkedIn. Before
becoming manager, he worked as an SRE on the team, expanding and increasing
Kafka to overcome the hurdles associated with scaling Kafka to never-before-seen
heights, including taking the first steps to moving LinkedIn’s large-scale Kafka
deployments into Microsoft’s Azure cloud. Krit has a master’s degree in computer sci‐
ence and previously worked managing Linux systems, and as a software engineer
developing software for high-performance computing projects in the oil and gas
industry.

=== PAGE 486 ===
Colophon
The animal on the cover of Kafka: The Definitive Guide is a blue-winged kookaburra
(Dacelo leachii). It is part of the Alcedinidae family and can be found in southern
New Guinea and the less dry area of northern Australia. They are considered to be
river kingfisher birds.
The male kookaburra has a colorful look. The lower wing and tail feathers are blue,
hence its name, but tails of females are reddish-brown with black bars. Both sexes
have cream-colored undersides with streaks of brown, and white irises in their eyes.
Adult kookaburras are smaller than other kingfishers at just 15 to 17 inches in length
and, on average, weigh about 260 to 330 grams.
The diet of the blue-winged kookaburra is heavily carnivorous, with prey varying
slightly given changing seasons. For example, in the summer months there is a larger
abundance of lizards, insects, and frogs that this bird feeds on, but drier months
introduce more crayfish, fish, rodents, and even smaller birds into their diet. They’re
not alone in eating other birds, however, as red goshawks and rufous owls have the
blue-winged kookaburra on their menu when in season.
Breeding for the blue-winged kookaburra occurs in the months of September
through December. Nests are built in hollows in the high parts of trees. Raising young
is a community effort; there is at least one helper bird assisting Mom and Dad. Three
to four eggs are laid and incubated for about 26 days. Chicks will fledge around 36
days after hatching—if they survive. Older siblings have been known to kill the
younger ones in their aggressive and competitive first week of life. Those who aren’t
victims of fratricide or other causes of death will be trained by their parents to hunt
for 6 to 10 weeks before heading off on their own.
Many of the animals on O’Reilly covers are endangered; all of them are important to
the world. To learn more about how you can help, go to animals.oreilly.com.
Color illustration by Karen Montgomery, based on a black and white engraving from
English Cyclopaedia. The cover fonts are Gilroy Semibold and Guardian Sans. The
text font is Adobe Minion Pro; the heading font is Adobe Myriad Condensed; and the
code font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu Mono.


