
=== PAGE 316 ===
integer, Kafka brokers determine the session lifetime for SASL connections and
inform clients of this lifetime during the SASL handshake. Session lifetime is the
lower of the remaining lifetime of the credential or connections.max.reauth.ms.
Any connection that doesn’t reauthenticate within this interval is terminated by the
broker. Clients perform reauthentication using the latest credentials acquired by the
background login thread or injected using custom callbacks. Reauthentication can be
used to tighten security in several scenarios:
• For SASL mechanisms like GSSAPI and OAUTHBEARER that use credentials
with a limited lifetime, reauthentication guarantees that all active connections are
associated with valid credentials. Short-lived credentials limit exposure in case
credentials that are compromised.
• Password-based SASL mechanisms like PLAIN and SCRAM can support pass‐
word rotation by adding periodic login. Reauthentication limits the amount of
time requests are processed on connections authenticated with the old password.
Custom server callback that allows both old and new passwords for a period of
time can be used to avoid outages until all clients migrate to the new password.
• connections.max.reauth.ms forces reauthentication in all SASL mechanisms,
including those with nonexpiring credentials. This limits the amount of time a
credential may be associated with an active connection after it has been revoked.
• Connections from clients without SASL reauthentication support are terminated
on session expiry, forcing the clients to reconnect and authenticate again, thus
providing the same security guarantees for expired or revoked credentials.
Compromised Users
If a user is compromised, action must be taken to remove the
user from the system as soon as possible. All new connections will
fail to authenticate with Kafka brokers once the user is removed
from the authentication server. Existing connections will continue
to process requests until the next reauthentication timeout. If con
nections.max.reauth.ms is not configured, no timeout is applied
and existing connections may continue to use the compromised
user’s identity for a long time. Kafka does not support SSL renego‐
tiation due to known vulnerabilities during renegotiation in older
SSL protocols. Newer protocols like TLSv1.3 do not support rene‐
gotiation. So, existing SSL connections may continue to use
revoked or expired certificates. Deny ACLs for the user principal
can be used to prevent these connections from performing any
operation. Since ACL changes are applied with very small latencies
across all brokers, this is the quickest way to disable access for
compromised users.
Authentication | 287

=== PAGE 317 ===
Security Updates Without Downtime
Kafka deployments need regular maintenance to rotate secrets, apply security fixes,
and update to the latest security protocols. Many of these maintenance tasks are per‐
formed using rolling updates where one by one, brokers are shut down and restarted
with an updated configuration. Some tasks like updating SSL key stores and trust
stores can be performed using dynamic config updates without restarting brokers.
When adding a new security protocol to an existing deployment, a new listener can
be added to brokers with the new protocol while retaining the old listener with the
old protocol to ensure that client applications can continue to function using the old
listener during the update. For example, the following sequence can be used to switch
from PLAINTEXT to SASL_SSL in an existing deployment:
1. Add a new listener on a new port to each broker using the Kafka configs tool.
Use a single config update command to update listeners and advertised.
listeners to include the old listener as well as the new listener, and provide all
the configuration options for the new SASL_SSL listener with the listener prefix.
2. Modify all client applications to use the new SASL_SSL listener.
3. If inter-broker communication is being updated to use the new SASL_SSL lis‐
tener, perform a rolling update of brokers with the new inter.broker.
listener.name.
4. Use the configs tool to remove the old listener from listeners and
advertised.listeners and to remove any unused configuration options of the
old listener.
SASL mechanisms can be added or removed from existing SASL listeners without
downtime using rolling updates on the same listener port. The following sequence
switches the mechanism from PLAIN to SCRAM-SHA-256:
1. Add all existing users to the SCRAM store using the Kafka configs tool.
2. Set sasl.enabled.mechanisms=PLAIN,SCRAM-SHA-256, configure listener.
name.<_listener-name_>.scram-sha-256.sasl.jaas.config for the listener,
and perform a rolling update of brokers.
3. Modify all client applications to use sasl.mechanism=SCRAM-SHA-256 and update
sasl.jaas.config to use SCRAM.
4. If the listener is used for inter-broker communication, use a rolling update of
brokers to set sasl.mechanism.inter.broker.protocol=SCRAM-SHA-256.
5. Perform another rolling update of brokers to remove the PLAIN mechanism.
Set sasl.enabled.mechanisms=SCRAM-SHA-256 and remove listener.name.
288 | Chapter 11: Securing Kafka

=== PAGE 318 ===
<listener-name>.plain.sasl.jaas.config and any other configuration
options for PLAIN.
Encryption
Encryption is used to preserve data privacy and data integrity. As we discussed ear‐
lier, Kafka listeners using SSL and SASL_SSL security protocols use TLS as the trans‐
port layer, providing secure encrypted channels that protect data transmitted over an
insecure network. TLS cipher suites can be restricted to strengthen security and
adhere to security requirements like the Federal Information Processing Standard
(FIPS).
Additional measures must be taken to protect data at rest to ensure that sensitive data
cannot be retrieved even by users with physical access to the disk that stores Kafka
logs. To avoid security breaches even if the disk is stolen, physical storage can be
encrypted using whole disk encryption or volume encryption.
While encryption of transport layer and data storage may provide adequate protec‐
tion in many deployments, additional protection may be required to avoid granting
automatic data access to platform administrators. Unencrypted data present in broker
memory may appear in heap dumps, and administrators with direct access to the disk
will be able to access these, as well as Kafka logs containing potentially sensitive data.
In deployments with highly sensitive data or Personally Identifiable Information
(PII), extra measures are required to preserve data privacy. To comply with regulatory
requirements, especially in cloud deployments, it is necessary to guarantee that confi‐
dential data cannot be accessed by platform administrators or cloud providers by any
means. Custom encryption providers can be plugged into Kafka clients to implement
end-to-end encryption that guarantees that the entire data flow is encrypted.
End-to-End Encryption
In Chapter 3 on Kafka producers, we saw that serializers are used to convert messages
into the byte array stored in Kafka logs, and in Chapter 4 on Kafka consumers, we
saw that deserializers converted the byte array back to the message. Serializers and
deserializers can be integrated with an encryption library to perform encryption of
the message during serialization, and decryption during deserialization. Message
encryption is typically performed using symmetric encryption algorithms like AES. A
shared encryption key stored in a key management system (KMS) enables producers
to encrypt the message and consumers to decrypt the message. Brokers do not
require access to the encryption key and never see the unencrypted contents of the
message, making this approach safe to use in cloud environments. Encryption
parameters that are required to decrypt the message may be stored in message head‐
ers or in the message payload if older consumers without header support need access
Encryption | 289

=== PAGE 319 ===
to the message. A digital signature may also be included in message headers to verify
message integrity.
Figure 11-2 shows a Kafka data flow with end-to-end encryption.
Figure 11-2. End-to-end encryption
1. We send a message using a Kafka producer.
2. The producer uses an encryption key from KMS to encrypt the message.
3. The encrypted message is sent to the broker. The broker stores the encrypted
message in the partition logs.
4. The broker sends the encrypted message to consumers.
5. The consumer uses the encryption key from KMS to decrypt the message.
Producers and consumers must be configured with credentials to obtain shared keys
from KMS. Periodic key rotation is recommended to harden security, since frequent
rotation limits the number of compromised messages in case of a breach and also
protects against brute-force attacks. Consumption must be supported with both old
and new keys during the retention period of messages encrypted with the old key.
Many KMS systems support graceful key rotation out of the box for symmetric
encryption without requiring any special handling in Kafka clients. For compacted
topics, messages encrypted with old keys may be retained for a long time, and it may
be necessary to re-encrypt old messages. To avoid interference with newer messages,
producers and consumers must be offline during this process.
290 | Chapter 11: Securing Kafka

=== PAGE 320 ===
Compression of Encrypted Messages
Compressing messages after encryption is unlikely to provide any
benefit in terms of space reduction compared to compressing prior
to encryption. Serializers may be configured to perform compres‐
sion before encrypting the message, or applications may be config‐
ured to perform compression prior to producing messages. In
either case, it is better to disable compression in Kafka since it adds
overhead without providing any additional benefit. For messages
transmitted over an insecure transport layer, known security
exploits of compressed encrypted messages must also be taken into
account.
In many environments, especially when TLS is used as the transport layer, message
keys do not require encryption since they typically do not contain sensitive data like
message payloads. But in some cases, clear-text keys may not comply with regulatory
requirements. Since message keys are used for partitioning and compaction, transfor‐
mation of keys must preserve the required hash equivalence to ensure that a key
retains the same hash value even if encryption parameters are altered. One approach
would be to store a secure hash of the original key as the message key and store the
encrypted message key in the message payload or in a header. Since Kafka serializes
message key and value independently, a producer interceptor can be used to perform
this transformation.
Authorization
Authorization is the process that determines what operations you are allowed to per‐
form on which resources. Kafka brokers manage access control using a customizable
authorizer. We saw earlier that whenever connections are established from a client to
a broker, the broker authenticates the client and associates a KafkaPrincipal that
represents the client identity with the connection. When a request is processed, the
broker verifies that the principal associated with the connection is authorized to per‐
form that request. For example, when Alice’s producer attempts to write a new cus‐
tomer order record to the topic customerOrders, the broker verifies that User:Alice
is authorized to write to that topic.
Kafka has a built-in authorizer, AclAuthorizer, that can be enabled by configuring
the authorizer class name as follows:
authorizer.class.name=kafka.security.authorizer.AclAuthorizer
Authorization | 291

=== PAGE 321 ===
SimpleAclAuthorizer
AclAuthorizer was introduced in Apache Kafka 2.3. Older ver‐
sions from 0.9.0.0 onward had a built-in authorizer,
kafka.security.auth.SimpleAclAuthorizer, which has been
deprecated but is still supported.
AclAuthorizer
AclAuthorizer supports fine-grained access control for Kafka resources using access
control lists (ACLs). ACLs are stored in ZooKeeper and cached in memory by every
broker to enable high-performance lookup for authorizing requests. ACLs are loaded
into the cache when the broker starts up, and the cache is kept up-to-date using noti‐
fications based on a ZooKeeper watcher. Every Kafka request is authorized by verify‐
ing that the KafkaPrincipal associated with the connection has permissions to
perform the requested operation on the requested resources.
Each ACL binding consists of:
• Resource type: Cluster|Topic|Group|TransactionalId|DelegationToken
• Pattern type: Literal|Prefixed
• Resource name: Name of the resource or prefix, or the wildcard *
• Operation: Describe|Create|Delete|Alter|Read|Write|DescribeConfigs|
