• Clients lose connectivity to one of the brokers
• High latency between client and broker
Validating System Reliability | 177

=== PAGE 207 ===
• Disk full
• Hanging disk (also called “brown out”)
• Leader election
• Rolling restart of brokers
• Rolling restart of consumers
• Rolling restart of producers
There are many tools that can be used to introduce network and disk faults, and
many are excellent, so we will not attempt to make specific recommendations.
Apache Kafka itself includes the Trogdor test framework for fault injection.  For each
scenario, we will have expected behavior, which is what we planned on seeing when
we developed the application. Then we run the test to see what actually happens. For
example, when planning for a rolling restart of consumers, we planned for a short
pause as consumers rebalance and then continue consumption with no more than
1,000 duplicate values. Our test will show whether the way the application commits
offsets and handles rebalances actually works this way.
Monitoring Reliability in Production
Testing the application is important, but it does not replace the need to continuously
monitor production systems to make sure data is flowing as expected. Chapter 12 will
cover detailed suggestions on how to monitor the Kafka cluster, but in addition to
monitoring the health of the cluster, it is important to also monitor the clients and the
flow of data through the system.
Kafka’s Java clients include JMX metrics that allow monitoring client-side status and
events. For the producers, the two metrics most important for reliability are
error-rate and retry-rate per record (aggregated). Keep an eye on those, since error or
retry rates going up can indicate an issue with the system. Also monitor the producer
logs for errors that occur while sending events that are logged at WARN level, and say
something along the lines of “Got error produce response with correlation id 5689 on
topic-partition [topic-1,3], retrying (two attempts left). Error: … ” When we see
events with 0 attempts left, the producer is running out of retries. In Chapter 3 we
discussed how to configure delivery.timeout.ms and retries to improve the error
handling in the producer and avoid running out of retries prematurely. Of course, it
is always better to solve the problem that caused the errors in the first place. ERROR
level log messages on the producer are likely to indicate that sending the message
failed completely due to nonretriable error, a retriable error that ran out of retries, or
a timeout. When applicable, the exact error from the broker will be logged as well.
On the consumer side, the most important metric is consumer lag. This metric indi‐
cates how far the consumer is from the latest message committed to the partition on
178 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 208 ===
the broker. Ideally, the lag would always be zero and the consumer will always read
the latest message. In practice, because calling poll() returns multiple messages and
then the consumer spends time processing them before fetching more messages, the
lag will always fluctuate a bit. What is important is to make sure consumers do even‐
tually catch up rather than fall further and further behind. Because of the expected
fluctuation in consumer lag, setting traditional alerts on the metric can be challeng‐
ing. Burrow is a consumer lag checker by LinkedIn and can make this easier.
Monitoring flow of data also means making sure all produced data is consumed in a
timely manner (“timely manner” is usually based on business requirements). In order
to make sure data is consumed in a timely manner, we need to know when the data
was produced. Kafka assists in this: starting with version 0.10.0, all messages include
a timestamp that indicates when the event was produced (although note that this can
be overridden either by the application that is sending the events or by the brokers
themselves if they are configured to do so).
To make sure all produced messages are consumed within a reasonable amount of
time, we will need the application producing the messages to record the number of
events produced (usually as events per second). The consumers need to record the
number of events consumed per unit or time, and the lag from the time events were
produced to the time they were consumed, using the event timestamp. Then we will
need a system to reconcile the events per second numbers from both the producer
and the consumer (to make sure no messages were lost on the way) and to make sure
the interval between produce time and consume time is reasonable. This type of end-
to-end monitoring systems can be challenging and time-consuming to implement. To
the best of our knowledge, there is no open source implementation of this type of sys‐
tem, but Confluent provides a commercial implementation as part of the Confluent
Control Center.
In addition to monitoring clients and the end-to-end flow of data, Kafka brokers
include metrics that indicate the rate of error responses sent from the brokers
to clients. We recommend collecting kafka.server:type=BrokerTopicMetrics,
name=FailedProduceRequestsPerSec and kafka.server:type=BrokerTopic
Metrics,name=FailedFetchRequestsPerSec. At times, some level of error responses
is expected—for example, if we shut down a broker for maintenance and new leaders
are elected on another broker, it is expected that producers will receive a
NOT_LEADER_FOR_PARTITION error, which will cause them to request updated meta‐
data before continuing to produce events as usual. Unexplained increases in failed
requests should always be investigated. To assist in such investigations, the failed
requests metrics are tagged with the specific error response that the broker sent.
Validating System Reliability | 179

=== PAGE 209 ===
Summary
As we said in the beginning of the chapter, reliability is not just a matter of specific
Kafka features. We need to build an entire reliable system, including the application
architecture, the way applications use the producer and Consumer APIs, producer
and consumer configuration, topic configuration, and broker configuration. Making
the system more reliable always has trade-offs in application complexity, perfor‐
mance, availability, or disk-space usage. By understanding all the options and com‐
mon patterns and understanding requirements for each use case, we can make
informed decisions regarding how reliable the application and Kafka deployment
need to be and which trade-offs make sense.
180 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 210 ===
CHAPTER 8
Exactly-Once Semantics
In Chapter 7 we discussed the configuration parameters and the best practices that
allow Kafka users to control Kafka’s reliability guarantees. We focused on at-least-
once delivery—the guarantee that Kafka will not lose messages that it acknowledged
as committed. This still leaves open the possibility of duplicate messages.
In simple systems where messages are produced and then consumed by various
applications, duplicates are an annoyance that is fairly easy to handle. Most real-
world applications contain unique identifiers that consuming applications can use to
deduplicate the messages.
Things become more complicated when we look at stream processing applications
that aggregate events. When inspecting an application that consumes events, com‐
putes an average, and produces the results, it is often impossible for those who check
the results to detect that the average is incorrect because an event was processed twice
while computing the average. In these cases, it is important to provide a stronger
guarantee—exactly-once processing semantics.
In this chapter, we will discuss how to use Kafka with exactly-once semantics, the rec‐
ommended use cases, and the limitations. As we did with at-least-once guarantees, we
will dive a bit deeper and provide some insight and intuition into how this guarantee
is implemented. These details can be skipped when you first read the chapter but will
be useful to understand before using the feature—it will help clarify the meaning of
the different configurations and APIs and how best to use them.
Exactly-once semantics in Kafka is a combination of two key features: idempotent
producers, which help avoid duplicates caused by producer retries, and transactional
semantics, which guarantee exactly-once processing in stream processing applica‐
tions. We will discuss both, starting with the simpler and more generally useful idem‐
potent producer.
181

=== PAGE 211 ===
Idempotent Producer
A service is called idempotent if performing the same operation multiple times has
the same result as performing it a single time. In databases it is usually demonstrated
as the difference between UPDATE t SET x=x+1 where y=5  and UPDATE t SET x=18
where y=5. The first example is not idempotent; if we call it three times, we’ll end up
with a very different result than if we were to call it once. The second example is
idempotent—no matter how many times we run this statement, x will be equal to 18.
How is this related to a Kafka producer? If we configure a producer to have at-least-
once semantics rather than idempotent semantics, it means that in cases of uncer‐
tainty, the producer will retry sending the message so it will arrive at least once. These
retries could lead to duplicates.
The classic case is when a partition leader received a record from the producer, repli‐
cated it successfully to the followers, and then the broker on which the leader resides
crashed before it could send a response to the producer. The producer, after a certain
time without a response, will resend the message. The message will arrive at the new
leader, who already has a copy of the message from the previous attempt—resulting
in a duplicate.
In some applications duplicates don’t matter much, but in others they can lead to
inventory miscounts, bad financial statements, or sending someone two umbrellas
instead of the one they ordered.
Kafka’s idempotent producer solves this problem by automatically detecting and
resolving such duplicates.
How Does the Idempotent Producer Work?
When we enable the idempotent producer, each message will include a unique identi‐
fied producer ID (PID) and a sequence number. These, together with the target topic
and partition, uniquely identify each message. Brokers use these unique identifiers to
track the last five messages produced to every partition on the broker. To limit the
number of previous sequence numbers that have to be tracked for each partition, we
also require that the producers will use max.inflight.requests=5 or lower (the
default is 5).
When a broker receives a message that it already accepted before, it will reject the
duplicate with an appropriate error. This error is logged by the producer and is reflec‐
ted in its metrics but does not cause any exception and should not cause any alarm.
On the producer client, it will be added to the record-error-rate metric. On the
broker, it will be part of the ErrorsPerSec metric of the RequestMetrics type, which
includes a separate count for each type of error.
182 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 212 ===
What if a broker receives a sequence number that is unexpectedly high? The broker
expects message number 2 to be followed by message number 3; what happens if the
broker receives message number 27 instead? In such cases the broker will respond
with an “out of order sequence” error, but if we use an idempotent producer without
using transactions, this error can be ignored.
While the producer will continue normally after encountering an
“out of order sequence number” exception, this error typically indi‐
cates that messages were lost between the producer and the
broker—if the broker received message number 2 followed by mes‐
sage number 27, something must have happened to messages 3 to
26. When encountering such an error in the logs, it is worth revisit‐
ing the producer and topic configuration and making sure the pro‐
ducer is configured with recommended values for high reliability
and to check whether unclean leader election has occurred.
As is always the case with distributed systems, it is interesting to consider the behav‐
ior of an idempotent producer under failure conditions. Consider two cases: pro‐
ducer restart and broker failure.
Producer restart
When a producer fails, usually a new producer will be created to replace it—whether
manually by a human rebooting a machine, or using a more sophisticated framework
like Kubernetes that provides automated failure recovery. The key point is that when
the producer starts, if the idempotent producer is enabled, the producer will initialize
and reach out to a Kafka broker to generate a producer ID. Each initialization of a
producer will result in a completely new ID (assuming that we did not enable trans‐
actions). This means that if a producer fails and the producer that replaces it sends a
message that was previously sent by the old producer, the broker will not detect the
duplicates—the two messages will have different producer IDs and different sequence
numbers and will be considered as two different messages. Note that the same is true
if the old producer froze and then came back to life after its replacement started—the
original producer is not recognized as a zombie, because we have two totally different
producers with different IDs.
Broker failure
When a broker fails, the controller elects new leaders for the partitions that had lead‐
