ing retries is: “In case of a broker crash, it typically takes leader
election 30 seconds to complete, so let’s keep retrying for 120 sec‐
onds just to be on the safe side. ” Instead of converting this mental
dialog to number of retries and time between retries, you just con‐
figure deliver.timeout.ms to 120.
request.timeout.ms
This parameter controls how long the producer will wait for a reply from the server
when sending data. Note that this is the time spent waiting on each producer request
before giving up; it does not include retries, time spent before sending, and so on. If
the timeout is reached without reply, the producer will either retry sending or com‐
plete the callback with a TimeoutException.
retries and retry.backoff.ms
When the producer receives an error message from the server, the error could be
transient (e.g., a lack of leader for a partition). In this case, the value of the retries
parameter will control how many times the producer will retry sending the message
before giving up and notifying the client of an issue. By default, the producer will wait
100 ms between retries, but you can control this using the retry.backoff.ms
parameter.
We recommend against using these parameters in the current version of Kafka.
Instead, test how long it takes to recover from a crashed broker (i.e., how long until
all partitions get new leaders), and set delivery.timeout.ms such that the total
amount of time spent retrying will be longer than the time it takes the Kafka cluster
to recover from the crash—otherwise, the producer will give up too soon.
Not all errors will be retried by the producer. Some errors are not transient and will
not cause retries (e.g., “message too large” error). In general, because the producer
handles retries for you, there is no point in handling retries within your own applica‐
tion logic. Y ou will want to focus your efforts on handling nonretriable errors or cases
where retry attempts were exhausted.
If you want to completely disable retries, setting retries=0 is the
only way to do so.
58 | Chapter 3: Kafka Producers: Writing Messages to Kafka

=== PAGE 88 ===
linger.ms
linger.ms controls the amount of time to wait for additional messages before send‐
ing the current batch. KafkaProducer sends a batch of messages either when the cur‐
rent batch is full or when the linger.ms limit is reached. By default, the producer will
send messages as soon as there is a sender thread available to send them, even if
there’s just one message in the batch. By setting linger.ms higher than 0, we instruct
the producer to wait a few milliseconds to add additional messages to the batch
before sending it to the brokers. This increases latency a little and significantly
increases throughput—the overhead per message is much lower, and compression, if
enabled, is much better.
buffer.memory
This config sets the amount of memory the producer will use to buffer messages wait‐
ing to be sent to brokers. If messages are sent by the application faster than they can
be delivered to the server, the producer may run out of space, and additional send()
calls will block for max.block.ms and wait for space to free up before throwing an
exception. Note that unlike most producer exceptions, this timeout is thrown by
send() and not by the resulting Future.
compression.type
By default, messages are sent uncompressed. This parameter can be set to snappy,
gzip, lz4, or zstd, in which case the corresponding compression algorithms will be
used to compress the data before sending it to the brokers. Snappy compression was
invented by Google to provide decent compression ratios with low CPU overhead
and good performance, so it is recommended in cases where both performance and
bandwidth are a concern. Gzip compression will typically use more CPU and time
but results in better compression ratios, so it is recommended in cases where network
bandwidth is more restricted. By enabling compression, you reduce network utiliza‐
tion and storage, which is often a bottleneck when sending messages to Kafka.
batch.size
When multiple records are sent to the same partition, the producer will batch them
together. This parameter controls the amount of memory in bytes (not messages!)
that will be used for each batch. When the batch is full, all the messages in the batch
will be sent. However, this does not mean that the producer will wait for the batch to
become full. The producer will send half-full batches and even batches with just a sin‐
gle message in them. Therefore, setting the batch size too large will not cause delays
in sending messages; it will just use more memory for the batches. Setting the batch
Configuring Producers | 59

=== PAGE 89 ===
size too small will add some overhead because the producer will need to send mes‐
sages more frequently.
max.in.flight.requests.per.connection
This controls how many message batches the producer will send to the server without
receiving responses. Higher settings can increase memory usage while improving
throughput. Apache’s wiki experiments show  that in a single-DC environment, the
throughput is maximized with only 2 in-flight requests; however, the default value is
5 and shows similar performance.
Ordering Guarantees
Apache Kafka preserves the order of messages within a partition.
This means that if messages are sent from the producer in a specific
order, the broker will write them to a partition in that order and all
consumers will read them in that order. For some use cases, order
is very important. There is a big difference between depositing
$100 in an account and later withdrawing it, and the other way
around! However, some use cases are less sensitive.
Setting the retries parameter to nonzero and the max.in.
flight.requests.per.connection to more than 1 means that it is
possible that the broker will fail to write the first batch of messages,
succeed in writing the second (which was already in-flight), and
then retry the first batch and succeed, thereby reversing the order.
Since we want at least two in-flight requests for performance rea‐
sons, and a high number of retries for reliability reasons, the best 
solution is to set enable.idempotence=true. This guarantees mes‐
sage ordering with up to five in-flight requests and also guarantees
that retries will not introduce duplicates. Chapter 8  discusses the
idempotent producer in depth.
max.request.size
This setting controls the size of a produce request sent by the producer. It caps both
the size of the largest message that can be sent and the number of messages that the
producer can send in one request. For example, with a default maximum request size
of 1 MB, the largest message you can send is 1 MB, or the producer can batch 1,024
messages of size 1 KB each into one request.  In addition, the broker has its own limit
on the size of the largest message it will accept ( message.max.bytes). It is usually a
good idea to have these configurations match, so the producer will not attempt to
send messages of a size that will be rejected by the broker.
60 | Chapter 3: Kafka Producers: Writing Messages to Kafka

=== PAGE 90 ===
receive.buffer.bytes and send.buffer.bytes
These are the sizes of the TCP send and receive buffers used by the sockets when
writing and reading data. If these are set to –1, the OS defaults will be used. It is a
good idea to increase these when producers or consumers communicate with brokers
in a different datacenter, because those network links typically have higher latency
and lower bandwidth.
enable.idempotence
Starting in version 0.11, Kafka supports exactly once semantics. Exactly once is a fairly
large topic, and we’ll dedicate an entire chapter to it, but idempotent producer is a
simple and highly beneficial part of it.
Suppose you configure your producer to maximize reliability: acks=all and a
decently large delivery.timeout.ms to allow sufficient retries. These make sure each
message will be written to Kafka at least once. In some cases, this means that mes‐
sages will be written to Kafka more than once. For example, imagine that a broker
received a record from the producer, wrote it to local disk, and the record was suc‐
cessfully replicated to other brokers, but then the first broker crashed before sending
a response to the producer. The producer will wait until it reaches request.
timeout.ms and then retry. The retry will go to the new leader that already has a copy
of this record since the previous write was replicated successfully. Y ou now have a
duplicate record.
To avoid this, you can set enable.idempotence=true. When the idempotent pro‐
ducer is enabled, the producer will attach a sequence number to each record it sends.
If the broker receives records with the same sequence number, it will reject the sec‐
ond copy and the producer will receive the harmless DuplicateSequenceException.
Enabling idempotence requires max.in.flight.requests.per.
connection to be less than or equal to 5, retries to be greater than
0, and acks=all. If incompatible values are set, a ConfigException
will be thrown.
Serializers
As seen in previous examples, producer configuration includes mandatory serializers.
We’ve seen how to use the default String serializer. Kafka also includes serializers for
integers, ByteArrays, and many more, but this does not cover most use cases. Even‐
tually, you will want to be able to serialize more generic records.
We will start by showing how to write your own serializer and then introduce the
Avro serializer as a recommended alternative.
Serializers | 61

=== PAGE 91 ===
Custom Serializers
When the object you need to send to Kafka is not a simple string or integer, you have 
a choice of either using a generic serialization library like Avro, Thrift, or Protobuf to
create records, or creating a custom serialization for objects you are already using. We
highly recommend using a generic serialization library. In order to understand how
the serializers work and why it is a good idea to use a serialization library, let’s see
what it takes to write your own custom serializer.
Suppose that instead of recording just the customer name, you create a simple class to
represent customers:
public class Customer {
    private int customerID;
    private String customerName;
    public Customer(int ID, String name) {
        this.customerID = ID;
        this.customerName = name;
    }
    public int getID() {
        return customerID;
    }
    public String getName() {
        return customerName;
    }
}
Now suppose we want to create a custom serializer for this class. It will look some‐
thing like this:
import org.apache.kafka.common.errors.SerializationException;
import java.nio.ByteBuffer;
import java.util.Map;
public class CustomerSerializer implements Serializer<Customer> {
    @Override
    public void configure(Map configs, boolean isKey) {
        // nothing to configure
    }
    @Override
    /**
    We are serializing Customer as:
    4 byte int representing customerId
    4 byte int representing length of customerName in UTF-8 bytes (0 if
        name is Null)
    N bytes representing customerName in UTF-8
62 | Chapter 3: Kafka Producers: Writing Messages to Kafka

=== PAGE 92 ===
    **/
    public byte[] serialize(String topic, Customer data) {
        try {
            byte[] serializedName;
            int stringSize;
            if (data == null)
                return null;
            else {
                if (data.getName() != null) {
