tion that acts on it, because the data does not leave as much room for interpretation
as to its meaning. On the other hand, if the metrics will be consumed by humans,
presenting a large number of metrics will be overwhelming.  This becomes even more
important when defining alerts based on those measurements. It is far too easy to
succumb to “alert fatigue, ” where there are so many alerts going off that it is difficult
to know how severe the problem is. It is also hard to properly define thresholds for
every metric and keep them up-to-date. When the alerts are overwhelming or often
incorrect, we begin to not trust that the alerts are correctly describing the state of our
applications.
Think about the operations of a car. To properly adjust the ratio of air to fuel while
the car is running, the computer needs a number of measurements of air density, fuel,
exhaust, and other minutiae about the operation of the engine. These measurements
would be overwhelming to the human operator of the vehicle, however. Instead, we
have a “Check Engine” light. A single indicator tells you that there is a problem, and
there is a way to find out more detailed information to tell you exactly what the prob‐
lem is. Throughout this chapter, we will identify the metrics that will provide the
highest amount of coverage to keep your alerting simple.
342 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 372 ===
Application Health Checks
No matter how you collect metrics from Kafka, you should make sure that you have a
way to also monitor the overall health of the application process via a simple health
check. This can be done in two ways:
• An external process that reports whether the broker is up or down (health check)
• Alerting on the lack of metrics being reported by the Kafka broker (sometimes
called stale metrics)
Though the second method works, it can make it difficult to differentiate between a
failure of the Kafka broker and a failure of the monitoring system itself.
For the Kafka broker, this can simply be connecting to the external port (the same
port that clients use to connect to the broker) to check that it responds. For client
applications, it can be more complex, ranging from a simple check of whether the
process is running, to an internal method that determines application health.
Service-Level Objectives
One area of monitoring that is especially critical for infrastructure services, such as
Kafka, is that of service-level objectives, or SLOs.  This is how we communicate to our
clients what level of service they can expect from the infrastructure service. The cli‐
ents want to be able to treat services like Kafka as an opaque system: they do not want
or need to understand the internals of how it works—only the interface that they are
using and knowing it will do what they need it to do.
Service-Level Definitions
Before discussing SLOs in Kafka, there must be agreement on the terminology that is
used. Frequently, you will hear engineers, managers, executives, and everyone else use
terms in the “service-level” space incorrectly, which leads to confusion about what is
actually being talked about.
A service-level indicator (SLI) is a metric that describes one aspect of a service’s relia‐
bility. It should be closely aligned with your client’s experience, so it is usually true
that the more objective these measurements are, the better they are. In a request pro‐
cessing system, such as Kafka, it is usually best to express these measurements as a
ratio between the number of good events and the total number of events—for exam‐
ple, the proportion of requests to a web server that return a 2xx, 3xx, or 4xx response.
A service-level objective (SLO), which can also be called a service-level threshold (SLT),
combines an SLI with a target value. A common way to express the target is by the
number of nines (99.9% is “three nines”), though it is by no means required. The SLO
should also include a time frame that it is measured over, frequently on the scale of
Service-Level Objectives | 343

=== PAGE 373 ===
days. For example, 99% of requests to the web server must return a 2xx, 3xx, or 4xx
response over 7 days.
A service-level agreement (SLA) is a contract between a service provider and a client.
It usually includes several SLOs, as well as details about how they are measured and
reported, how the client seeks support from the service provider, and penalties that
the service provider will be subject to if they are not performing within the SLA. For
example, an SLA for the preceding SLO might state that if the service provider is not
operating within the SLO, they will refund all fees paid by the client for the time
period that the service was not within the SLO.
Operational-Level Agreement
The term operational-level agreement (OLA) is less frequently used.
It describes agreements between multiple internal services or sup‐
port providers in the overall delivery of an SLA. The goal is to
assure that the multiple activities that are necessary to fulfill the
SLA are properly described and accounted for in the day-to-day
operations.
It is very common to hear people talk about SLAs when they really mean SLOs. While
those who are providing a service to paying clients may have SLAs with those clients,
it is rare that the engineers running the applications are responsible for anything
more than the performance of that service within the SLOs. In addition, those who
only have internal clients (i.e., are running Kafka as internal data infrastructure for a
much larger service) generally do not have SLAs with those internal customers. This
should not prevent you from setting and communicating SLOs, however, as doing
that will lead to fewer assumptions by customers as to how they think Kafka should
be performing.
What Metrics Make Good SLIs?
In general, the metrics for your SLIs should be gathered using something external to
the Kafka brokers. The reason for this is that SLOs should describe whether or not
the typical user of your service is happy, and you can’t measure that subjectively. Y our
clients do not care if you think your service is running correctly; it is their experience
(in aggregate) that matters. This means that infrastructure metrics are OK, synthetic
clients are good, and client-side metrics are probably the best for most of your SLIs.
While by no means an exhaustive list, the most common SLIs that are used in
request/response and data storage systems are in Table 13-2.
344 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 374 ===
Customers Always Want More
There are some SLOs that your customers may be interested in that
are important to them but not within your control. For example,
they may be concerned about the correctness or freshness of the
data produced to Kafka. Do not agree to support SLOs that you are
not responsible for, as that will only lead to taking on work that
dilutes the core job of keeping Kafka running properly. Make sure
to connect them with the proper group to set up understanding,
and agreements, around these additional requirements.
Table 13-2. Types of SLIs
Availability Is the client able to make a request and get a response?
Latency How quickly is the response returned?
Quality Does the response include a proper response?
Security Are the request and response appropriately protected, whether that is authorization or encryption?
Throughput Can the client get enough data, fast enough?
Keep in mind that it is usually better for your SLIs to be based on a counter of events
that fall inside the thresholds of the SLO. This means that ideally, each event would be
individually checked to see if it meets the threshold of the SLO. This rules out quan‐
tile metrics as good SLIs, as those will only tell you that 90% of your events were
below a given value without allowing you to control what that value is. However,
aggregating values into buckets (e.g., “less than 10 ms, ” “10–50 ms, ” “50–100 ms, ” etc.)
can be useful when working with SLOs, especially when you are not yet sure what a
good threshold is. This will give you a view into the distribution of the events within
the range of the SLO, and you can configure the buckets so that the boundaries are
reasonable values for the SLO threshold.
Using SLOs in Alerting
In short, SLOs should inform your primary alerts. The reason for this is that the SLOs
describe problems from your customers’ point of view, and those are the ones that
you should be concerned about first. Generally speaking, if a problem does not
impact your clients, it does not need to wake you up at night. SLOs will also tell you
about the problems that you don’t know how to detect because you’ve never seen
them before. They won’t tell you what those problems are, but they will tell you that
they exist.
Service-Level Objectives | 345

=== PAGE 375 ===
The challenge is that it’s very difficult to use an SLO directly as an alert. SLOs are best
for long timescales, such as a week, as we want to report them to management and
customers in a way that can be consumed. In addition, by the time the SLO alert fires,
it’s too late—you’re already operating outside of the SLO. Some will use a derivative
value to provide an early warning, but the best way to approach using SLOs for alert‐
ing is to observe the rate at which you are burning through your SLO over its
timeframe.
As an example, let’s assume that your Kafka cluster receives one million requests per
week, and you have an SLO defined that states that 99.9% of requests must send out
the first byte of response within 10 ms. This means that over the week, you can have
up to one thousand requests that respond slower than this and everything will still be
OK. Normally, you see one request like this every hour, which is about 168 bad
requests a week, measured from Sunday to Saturday. Y ou have a metric that shows
this as the SLO burn rate, and one request an hour at one million requests a week is a
burn rate of 0.1% per hour.
On Tuesday at 10 a.m., your metric changes and now shows that the burn rate is 0.4%
per hour. This isn’t great, but it’s still not a problem because you’ll be well within the
SLO by the end of the week. Y ou open a ticket to take a look at the problem but go
back to some higher-priority work. On Wednesday at 2 p.m., the burn rate jumps to
2% per hour and your alerts go off. Y ou know that at this rate, you’ll breach the SLO
by lunchtime on Friday. Dropping everything, you diagnose the problem, and after
about 4 hours you have the burn rate back down to 0.4% per hour, and it stays there
for the rest of the week. By using the burn rate, you were able to avoid breaching the
SLO for the week.
For more information on utilizing SLOs and the burn rate for alerting, you will find
that Site Reliability Engineering  and The Site Reliability Workbook , both edited by
Betsy Beyer et al. (O’Reilly), are excellent resources.
Kafka Broker Metrics
There are many Kafka broker metrics. Many of them are low-level measurements,
added by developers when investigating a specific issue or in anticipation of needing
information for debugging purposes later. There are metrics providing information
about nearly every function within the broker, but the most common ones provide
the information needed to run Kafka on a daily basis.
346 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 376 ===
Who Watches the Watchers?
Many organizations use Kafka for collecting application metrics,
system metrics, and logs for consumption by a central monitoring
system. This is an excellent way to decouple the applications from
the monitoring system, but it presents a specific concern for Kafka
itself. If you use this same system for monitoring Kafka itself, it is
very likely that you will never know when Kafka is broken because
the data flow for your monitoring system will be broken as well.
There are many ways that this can be addressed. One way is to use
a separate monitoring system for Kafka that does not have a
dependency on Kafka. Another way, if you have multiple datacen‐
ters, is to make sure that the metrics for the Kafka cluster in data‐
center A are produced to datacenter B, and vice versa. However
you decide to handle it, make sure that the monitoring and alerting
for Kafka does not depend on Kafka working.
In this section, we’ll start by discussing the high-level workflow for diagnosing prob‐
lems with your Kafka cluster, referencing the metrics that are useful. Those, and other
metrics, are described in more detail later in the chapter. This is by no means an
exhaustive list of broker metrics, but rather several “must have” metrics for checking
on the health of the broker and the cluster. We’ll wrap up with a discussion on log‐
ging before moving on to client metrics.
Diagnosing Cluster Problems
When it comes to problems with a Kafka cluster, there are three major categories:
• Single-broker problems
• Overloaded clusters
• Controller problems
Issues with individual brokers are, by far, the easiest to diagnose and respond to.
These will show up as outliers in the metrics for the cluster and are frequently related
to slow or failing storage devices or compute restraints from other applications on the
system. To detect them, make sure you are monitoring the availability of the individ‐
ual servers, as well as the status of the storage devices, utilizing the operating system
(OS) metrics.
Absent a problem identified at the OS or hardware level, however, the cause is almost
