there are 24 processors in the system, 100% would be a load aver‐
age of 24.
The Kafka broker uses a significant amount of processing for handling requests. For
this reason, keeping track of the CPU utilization is important when monitoring
Kafka. Memory is less important to track for the broker itself, as Kafka will normally
be run with a relatively small JVM heap size. It will use a small amount of memory
outside of the heap for compression functions, but most of the system memory will
be left to be used for cache. All the same, you should keep track of memory utiliza‐
tion to make sure other applications do not infringe on the broker. Y ou will also want
to make sure that swap memory is not being used by monitoring the amount of total
and free swap memory.
Disk is by far the most important subsystem when it comes to Kafka. All messages are
persisted to disk, so the performance of Kafka depends heavily on the performance of
the disks. Monitoring usage of both disk space and inodes ( inodes are the file and
directory metadata objects for Unix filesystems) is important, as you need to assure
that you are not running out of space. This is especially true for the partitions where
368 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 398 ===
Kafka data is being stored. It is also necessary to monitor the disk I/O statistics, as
this will tell us that the disk is being used efficiently. For at least the disks where Kafka
data is stored, monitor the reads and writes per second, the average read and write
queue sizes, the average wait time, and the utilization percentage of the disk.
Finally, monitor the network utilization on the brokers. This is simply the amount of
inbound and outbound network traffic, normally reported in bits per second. Keep in
mind that every bit inbound to the Kafka broker will be a number of bits outbound
equal to the replication factor of the topics, not including consumers. Depending on
the number of consumers, outbound network traffic could easily be an order of mag‐
nitude larger than inbound traffic. Keep this in mind when setting thresholds for
alerts.
Logging
No discussion of monitoring is complete without a word about logging. Like many
applications, the Kafka broker will fill disks with log messages in minutes if you let it.
In order to get useful information from logging, it is important to enable the right
loggers at the right levels. By simply logging all messages at the INFO level, you will
capture a significant amount of important information about the state of the broker.
It is useful to separate a couple of loggers from this, however, in order to provide a
cleaner set of log files.
There are two loggers writing to separate files on disk. The first is kafka.controller,
still at the INFO level. This logger is used to provide messages specifically regarding
the cluster controller. At any time, only one broker will be the controller, and there‐
fore only one broker will be writing to this logger. The information includes topic
creation and modification, broker status changes, and cluster activities such as prefer‐
red replica elections and partition moves. The other logger to separate is
kafka.server.ClientQuotaManager, also at the INFO level. This logger is used to
show messages related to produce and consume quota activities. While this is useful
information, it is better to not have it in the main broker log file.
It is also helpful to log information regarding the status of the log compaction
threads. There is no single metric to show the health of these threads, and it is possi‐
ble for failure in compaction of a single partition to halt the log compaction threads
entirely, and silently. Enabling the kafka.log.LogCleaner, kafka.log.Cleaner, and
kafka.log.LogCleanerManager loggers at the DEBUG level will output information
about the status of these threads. This will include information about each partition
being compacted, including the size and number of messages in each. Under normal
operations, this is not a lot of logging, which means that it can be enabled by default
without overwhelming you.
Kafka Broker Metrics | 369

=== PAGE 399 ===
There is also some logging that may be useful to turn on when debugging issues with
Kafka. One such logger is kafka.request.logger, turned on at either the DEBUG or
TRACE levels. This logs information about every request sent to the broker. At the
DEBUG level, the log includes connection end points, request timings, and summary
information. At the TRACE level, it will also include topic and partition information—
nearly all request information short of the message payload itself. At either level, this
logger generates a significant amount of data, and it is not recommended to enable it
unless necessary for debugging.
Client Monitoring
All applications need monitoring. Those that instantiate a Kafka client, either a pro‐
ducer or consumer, have metrics specific to the client that should be captured. This
section covers the official Java client libraries, though other implementations should
have their own measurements available.
Producer Metrics
The Kafka producer client has greatly compacted the metrics available by making
them available as attributes on a small number of JMX MBeans. In contrast, the pre‐
vious version of the producer client (which is no longer supported) used a larger
number of MBeans but had more detail in many of the metrics (providing a greater
number of percentile measurements and different moving averages). As a result, the
overall number of metrics provided covers a wider surface area, but it can be more
difficult to track outliers.
All of the producer metrics have the client ID of the producer client in the bean
names. In the examples provided, this has been replaced with CLIENTID. Where a
bean name contains a broker ID, this has been replaced with BROKERID. Topic names
have been replaced with TOPICNAME. See Table 13-19 for an example.
Table 13-19. Kafka producer metric MBeans
Name JMX MBean
Overall producer kafka.producer:type=producer-metrics,client-id=CLIENTID
Per-broker kafka.producer:type=producer-node-metrics,client-id=CLIENTID,node-
id=node-BROKERID
Per-topic kafka.producer:type=producer-topic-metrics,client-id=CLIEN
TID,topic=TOPICNAME
Each of the metric beans in Table 13-19 has multiple attributes available to describe
the state of the producer. The particular attributes that are of the most use are
370 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 400 ===
described in the next section. Before proceeding, be sure you understand the seman‐
tics of how the producer works, as described in Chapter 3.
Overall producer metrics
The overall producer metrics bean provides attributes describing everything from the
sizes of the message batches to the memory buffer utilization. While all of these
measurements have their place in debugging, there are only a handful needed on a
regular basis, and only a couple of those that should be monitored and have alerts.
Note that while we will discuss several metrics that are averages (ending in -avg),
there are also maximum values for each metric (ending in -max) that have limited
usefulness.
The record-error-rate is one attribute that you will definitely want to set an alert
for. This metric should always be zero, and if it is anything greater than that, the pro‐
ducer is dropping messages it is trying to send to the Kafka brokers. The producer
has a configured number of retries and a backoff between those, and once that has
been exhausted, the messages (called records here) will be dropped. There is also a
record-retry-rate attribute that can be tracked, but it is less critical than the error
rate because retries are normal.
The other metric to alert on is the request-latency-avg. This is the average amount
of time a produce request sent to the brokers takes. Y ou should be able to establish a
baseline value for what this number should be in normal operations, and set an alert
threshold above that. An increase in the request latency means that produce requests
are getting slower. This could be due to networking issues, or it could indicate prob‐
lems on the brokers. Either way, it’s a performance issue that will cause back pressure
and other problems in your producing application.
In addition to these critical metrics, it is always good to know how much message
traffic your producer is sending. Three attributes will provide three different views of
this. The outgoing-byte-rate describes the messages in absolute size in bytes per
second. The record-send-rate describes the traffic in terms of the number of mes‐
sages produced per second. Finally, the request-rate provides the number of pro‐
duce requests sent to the brokers per second. A single request contains one or more
batches. A single batch contains one or more messages. And, of course, each message
is made up of some number of bytes. These metrics are all useful to have on an appli‐
cation dashboard.
There are also metrics that describe the size of records, requests, and batches. The
request-size-avg metric provides the average size of the produce requests being
sent to the brokers in bytes. The batch-size-avg provides the average size of a single
message batch (which, by definition, is comprised of messages for a single topic parti‐
tion) in bytes. The record-size-avg shows the average size of a single record in
Client Monitoring | 371

=== PAGE 401 ===
bytes. For a single-topic producer, this provides useful information about the mes‐
sages being produced. For multiple-topic producers, such as MirrorMaker, it is less
informative. Besides these three metrics, there is a records-per-request-avg metric
that describes the average number of messages that are in a single produce request.
The last overall producer metric attribute that is recommended is record-queue-
time-avg. This measurement is the average amount of time, in milliseconds, that a
single message waits in the producer, after the application sends it, before it is actually
produced to Kafka. After an application calls the producer client to send a message
(by calling the send method), the producer waits until one of two things happens:
• It has enough messages to fill a batch based on the batch.size configuration.
• It has been long enough since the last batch was sent based on the linger.ms
configuration.
Either of these two will cause the producer client to close the current batch it is build‐
ing and send it to the brokers. The easiest way to understand it is that for busy topics,
the first condition will apply, whereas for slow topics, the second will apply. The
record-queue-time-avg measurement will indicate how long messages take to be
produced, and therefore is helpful when tuning these two configurations to meet the
latency requirements for your application.
Per-broker and per-topic metrics
In addition to the overall producer metrics, there are metric beans that provide a
limited set of attributes for the connection to each Kafka broker, as well as for each
topic that is being produced. These measurements are useful for debugging problems
in some cases, but they are not metrics that you are going to want to review on an
ongoing basis. All of the attributes on these beans are the same as the attributes for
the overall producer beans described previously and have the same meaning as
described previously (except that they apply either to a specific broker or a specific
topic).
The most useful metric provided by the per-broker producer metrics is the request-
latency-avg measurement . This is because this metric will be mostly stable (given
stable batching of messages) and can still show a problem with connections to a spe‐
cific broker. The other attributes, such as outgoing-byte-rate and request-
latency-avg, tend to vary depending on what partitions each broker is leading. This
means that what these measurements “should” be at any point in time can quickly
change, depending on the state of the Kafka cluster.
The topic metrics are a little more interesting than the per-broker metrics, but they
will only be useful for producers that are working with more than one topic. They
will also only be usable on a regular basis if the producer is not working with a lot of
372 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 402 ===
topics. For example, a MirrorMaker could be producing hundreds, or thousands, of
topics. It is difficult to review all of those metrics, and nearly impossible to set reason‐
able alert thresholds on them. As with the per-broker metrics, the per-topic measure‐
ments are best used when investigating a specific problem. The record-send-rate
and record-error-rate attributes, for example, can be used to isolate dropped mes‐
sages to a specific topic (or validated to be across all topics). In addition, there is a
byte-rate metric that provides the overall messages rate in bytes per second for the
topic.
Consumer Metrics
Similar to the producer client, the consumer in Kafka consolidates many of the met‐
rics into attributes on just a few metric beans. These metrics have also eliminated the
percentiles for latencies and the moving averages for rates, which were presenting in
the deprecated Scala consumer, similar to the producer client. In the consumer,
because the logic around consuming messages is a little more complex than just firing
messages into the Kafka brokers, there are a few more metrics to deal with as well. See
Table 13-20.
Table 13-20. Kafka consumer metric MBeans
Name JMX MBean
Overall consumer kafka.consumer:type=consumer-metrics,client-id=CLIENTID
Fetch manager kafka.consumer:type=consumer-fetch-manager-metrics,client-id=CLIENTID
Per-topic kafka.consumer:type=consumer-fetch-manager-metrics,client-id=CLIENT
ID,topic=TOPICNAME
Per-broker kafka.consumer:type=consumer-node-metrics,client-id=CLIENTID,node-
