tool when offsets diverge. These days, mirroring solutions, including Mirror‐
Maker, use a Kafka topic for storing offset translation metadata. Offsets are
stored whenever the difference between the two offsets changes. For example, if
offset 495 on the primary mapped to offset 500 on the DR cluster, we’ll record
(495,500) in the external store or offset translation topic. If the difference
changes later due to duplicates and offset 596 is mapped to 600, then we’ll record
the new mapping (596,600). There is no need to store all the offset mappings
between 495 and 596; we just assume that the difference remains the same and so
offset 550 in the primary cluster will map to 555 in the DR. Then when failover
occurs, instead of mapping timestamps (which are always a bit inaccurate) to off‐
sets, we map primary offsets to DR offsets and use those. One of the two techni‐
ques listed previously can be used to force consumers to start using the new
offsets from the mapping. This still has an issue with offset commits that arrived
ahead of the records themselves and offset commits that didn’t get mirrored to
the DR on time, but it covers some cases.
244 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 274 ===
After the failover
Let’s say that failover was successful. Everything is working just fine on the DR clus‐
ter. Now we need to do something with the primary cluster. Perhaps turn it into a DR.
It is tempting to simply modify the mirroring processes to reverse their direction and
simply start mirroring from the new primary to the old one. However, this leads to
two important questions:
• How do we know where to start mirroring? We need to solve the same problem
we have for all our consumers for the mirroring application itself. And remember
that all our solutions have cases where they either cause duplicates or miss data—
sometimes both.
• In addition, for reasons we discussed previously, it is likely that your original pri‐
mary will have events that the DR cluster does not. If you just start mirroring
new data back, the extra history will remain and the two clusters will be
inconsistent.
For this reason, for scenarios where consistency and ordering guarantees are critical,
the simplest solution is to first scrape the original cluster—delete all the data and
committed offsets—and then start mirroring from the new primary back to what is
now the new DR cluster. This gives you a clean slate that is identical to the new
primary.
A few words on cluster discovery
One of the important points to consider when planning a standby cluster is that in
the event of failover, your applications will need to know how to start communicating
with the failover cluster. If you hardcoded the hostnames of your primary cluster
brokers in the producer and consumer properties, this will be challenging. Most
organizations keep it simple and create a DNS name that usually points to the pri‐
mary brokers. In case of an emergency, the DNS name can be pointed to the standby
cluster. The discovery service (DNS or other) doesn’t need to include all the
brokers—Kafka clients only need to access a single broker successfully in order to get
metadata about the cluster and discover the other brokers. So, including just three
brokers is usually fine. Regardless of the discovery method, most failover scenarios
do require bouncing consumer applications after failover so they can find the new
offsets from which they need to start consuming. For automated failover without
application restart to achieve very low RTO, failover logic should be built into client
applications.
Multicluster Architectures | 245

=== PAGE 275 ===
Stretch Clusters
Active-standby architectures are used to protect the business against the failure of a
Kafka cluster by moving applications to communicate with another cluster in case of
cluster failure. Stretch clusters are intended to protect the Kafka cluster from failure
during a datacenter outage. This is achieved by installing a single Kafka cluster across
multiple datacenters.
Stretch clusters are fundamentally different from other multidatacenter scenarios. To
start with, they are not multicluster—it is just one cluster. As a result, we don’t need a
mirroring process to keep two clusters in sync. Kafka’s normal replication mechanism
is used, as usual, to keep all brokers in the cluster in sync. This setup can include syn‐
chronous replication. Producers normally receive an acknowledgment from a Kafka
broker after the message was successfully written to Kafka. In the stretch cluster case,
we can configure things so the acknowledgment will be sent after the message is writ‐
ten successfully to Kafka brokers in two datacenters. This involves using rack defini‐
tions to make sure each partition has replicas in multiple datacenters, and the use of
min.insync.replicas and acks=all to ensure that every write is acknowledged from
at least two datacenters. From 2.4.0 onward, brokers can also be configured to enable
consumers to fetch from the closest replica using rack definitions. Brokers match
their rack with that of the consumer to find the local replica that is most up-to-date,
falling back to the leader if a suitable local replica is not available. Consumers fetch‐
ing from followers in their local datacenter achieve higher throughput, lower latency,
and lower cost by reducing cross-datacenter traffic.
The advantages of this architecture are in the synchronous replication—some types
of business simply require that their DR site is always 100% synchronized with the
primary site. This is often a legal requirement and is applied to any data store across
the company—Kafka included. The other advantage is that both datacenters and all
brokers in the cluster are used. There is no waste like we saw in active-standby
architectures.
This architecture is limited in the type of disasters it protects against. It only protects
from datacenter failures, not any kind of application or Kafka failures. The opera‐
tional complexity is also limited. This architecture demands physical infrastructure
that not all companies can provide.
This architecture is feasible if you can install Kafka (and ZooKeeper) in at least three
datacenters with high bandwidth and low latency between them. This can be done if
your company owns three buildings on the same street, or—more commonly—by
using three availability zones inside one region of your cloud provider.
246 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 276 ===
The reason three datacenters are important is because ZooKeeper requires an uneven
number of nodes in a cluster and will remain available if a majority of the nodes are
available. With two datacenters and an uneven number of nodes, one datacenter will
always contain a majority, which means that if this datacenter is unavailable, Zoo‐
Keeper is unavailable, and Kafka is unavailable. With three datacenters, you can easily
allocate nodes so no single datacenter has a majority. So, if one datacenter is unavail‐
able, a majority of nodes exist in the other two datacenters, and the ZooKeeper cluster
will remain available. Therefore, so will the Kafka cluster.
2.5 DC Architecture
A popular model for stretch clusters is a 2.5 DC (datacenter) archi‐
tecture with both Kafka and ZooKeeper running in two datacen‐
ters, and a third “0.5” datacenter with one ZooKeeper node to
provide quorum if a datacenter fails.
It is possible to run ZooKeeper and Kafka in two datacenters using a ZooKeeper
group configuration that allows for manual failover between two datacenters. How‐
ever, this setup is uncommon.
Apache Kafka’s MirrorMaker
Apache Kafka contains a tool called MirrorMaker for mirroring data between two
datacenters. Early versions of MirrorMaker used a collection of consumers that were
members of a consumer group to read data from a set of source topics and a shared
Kafka producer in each MirrorMaker process to send those events to the destination
cluster. While this was sufficient to mirror data across clusters in some scenarios, it
had several issues, particularly latency spikes as configuration changes and addition
of new topics resulted in stop-the-world rebalances. MirrorMaker 2.0 is the next-
generation multicluster mirroring solution for Apache Kafka that is based on the
Kafka Connect framework, overcoming many of the shortcomings of its predecessor.
Complex topologies can be easily configured to support a wide range of use cases like
disaster recovery, backup, migration, and data aggregation.
More about MirrorMaker
MirrorMaker sounds very simple, but because we were trying to be
very efficient and get very close to exactly-once delivery, it turned
out to be tricky to implement correctly. MirrorMaker has been
rewritten multiple times. The description here and the details in
the following sections apply to MirrorMaker 2.0, which was intro‐
duced in 2.4.0.
Apache Kafka’s MirrorMaker | 247

=== PAGE 277 ===
MirrorMaker uses a source connector to consume data from another Kafka cluster
rather than from a database. Use of the Kafka Connect framework minimizes admin‐
istration overhead for busy enterprise IT departments. If you recall the Kafka Con‐
nect architecture from Chapter 9 , you remember that each connector divides the
work among a configurable number of tasks. In MirrorMaker, each task is a con‐
sumer and a producer pair. The Connect framework assigns those tasks to different
Connect worker nodes as needed—so you may have multiple tasks on one server or
have the tasks spread out to multiple servers. This replaces the manual work of figur‐
ing out how many MirrorMaker streams should run per instance and how many
instances per machine. Connect also has a REST API to centrally manage the
configuration for the connectors and tasks. If we assume that most Kafka deploy‐
ments include Kafka Connect for other reasons (sending database change events into
Kafka is a very popular use case), then by running MirrorMaker inside Connect, we
can cut down on the number of clusters we need to manage.
MirrorMaker allocates partitions to tasks evenly without using Kafka’s consumer
group-management protocol to avoid latency spikes due to rebalances when new top‐
ics or partitions are added. Events from each partition in the source cluster are mir‐
rored to the same partition in the target cluster, preserving semantic partitioning and
maintaining ordering of events for each partition. If new partitions are added to
source topics, they are automatically created in the target topic. In addition to data
replication, MirrorMaker also supports migration of consumer offsets, topic configu‐
ration, and topic ACLs, making it a complete mirroring solution for multicluster
deployments. A replication flow defines the configuration of a directional flow from a
source cluster to a target cluster. Multiple replication flows can be defined for Mirror‐
Maker to define complex topologies, including the architectural patterns we dis‐
cussed earlier like hub-and-spoke, active-standby, and active-active architectures.
Figure 10-6 shows the use of MirrorMaker in an active-standby architecture.
Figure 10-6. The MirrorMaker process in Kafka
248 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 278 ===
Configuring MirrorMaker
MirrorMaker is highly configurable. In addition to the cluster settings to define the
topology, Kafka Connect, and connector settings, every configuration property of the
underlying producer, consumers, and admin client used by MirrorMaker can be cus‐
tomized. We will show a few examples here and highlight some of the important con‐
figuration options, but exhaustive documentation of MirrorMaker is outside our
scope.
With that in mind, let’s take a look at a MirrorMaker example. The following com‐
mand starts MirrorMaker with the configuration options specified in the properties
file:
bin/connect-mirror-maker.sh etc/kafka/connect-mirror-maker.properties
Let’s look at some of MirrorMaker’s configuration options:
Replication flow
The following example shows the configuration options for setting up an active-
standby replication flow between two datacenters in New Y ork and London:
clusters = NYC, LON                                 
NYC.bootstrap.servers = kafka.nyc.example.com:9092  
LON.bootstrap.servers = kafka.lon.example.com:9092
NYC->LON.enabled = true                             
NYC->LON.topics = .*                                
Define aliases for the clusters used in replication flows.
Configure bootstrap for each cluster, using the cluster alias as the prefix.
Enable replication flow between a pair of clusters using the prefix source
->target. All configuration options for this flow use the same prefix.
Configure the topics to be mirrored for this replication flow.
Mirror topics
As shown in the example, for each replication flow, a regular expression may be
specified for the topic names that will be mirrored. In this example, we chose to
replicate every topic, but it is often good practice to use something like prod.*
and avoid replicating test topics. A separate topic exclusion list containing topic
names or patterns like test.* may also be specified to exclude topics that don’t
require mirroring. Target topic names are automatically prefixed with the source
cluster alias by default. For example, in active-active architecture, MirrorMaker
replicating topics from an NYC datacenter to a LON datacenter will mirror the
topic orders from NYC to the topic NYC.orders in LON. This default naming
strategy prevents replication cycles resulting in events being endlessly mirrored
Apache Kafka’s MirrorMaker | 249
