data.
So where did Kafka come from? Why did we build it? And what exactly is it?
Kafka got its start as an internal infrastructure system we built at LinkedIn. Our
observation was really simple: there were lots of databases and other systems built to
store data, but what was missing in our architecture was something that would help
us to handle the continuous flow of data. Prior to building Kafka, we experimented
with all kinds of off-the-shelf options, from messaging systems to log aggregation and
ETL tools, but none of them gave us what we wanted.
We eventually decided to build something from scratch. Our idea was that instead of
focusing on holding piles of data like our relational databases, key-value stores, search
indexes, or caches, we would focus on treating data as a continually evolving and
ever-growing stream and build a data system—and indeed a data architecture—ori‐
ented around that idea.
This idea turned out to be even more broadly applicable than we expected. Though
Kafka got its start powering real-time applications and data flow behind the scenes of
a social network, you can now see it at the heart of next-generation architectures in
every industry imaginable. Big retailers are reworking their fundamental business
processes around continuous data streams, car companies are collecting and process‐
ing real-time data streams from internet-connected cars, and banks are rethinking
their fundamental processes and systems around Kafka as well.
So what is this Kafka thing all about? How does it compare to the systems you already
know and use?
xv

=== PAGE 21 ===
We’ve come to think of Kafka as a streaming platform: a system that lets you publish
and subscribe to streams of data, store them, and process them, and that is exactly
what Apache Kafka is built to be. Getting used to this way of thinking about data
might be a little different than what you’re used to, but it turns out to be an incredibly
powerful abstraction for building applications and architectures. Kafka is often com‐
pared to a couple of existing technology categories: enterprise messaging systems, big
data systems like Hadoop, and data integration or ETL tools. Each of these compari‐
sons has some validity but also falls a little short.
Kafka is like a messaging system in that it lets you publish and subscribe to streams of
messages. In this way, it is similar to products like ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, IBM’s
MQSeries, and other products. But even with these similarities, Kafka has a number
of core differences from traditional messaging systems that make it another kind of
animal entirely. Here are the big three differences: first, it works as a modern dis‐
tributed system that runs as a cluster and can scale to handle all the applications in
even the most massive of companies. Rather than running dozens of individual mes‐
saging brokers, hand wired to different apps, this lets you have a central platform that
can scale elastically to handle all the streams of data in a company. Second, Kafka is a
true storage system built to store data for as long as you might like. This has huge
advantages in using it as a connecting layer as it provides real delivery guarantees—its
data is replicated, persistent, and can be kept around as long as you like. Finally, the
world of stream processing raises the level of abstraction quite significantly. Messag‐
ing systems mostly just hand out messages. The stream processing capabilities in
Kafka let you compute derived streams and datasets dynamically off of your streams
with far less code. These differences make Kafka enough of its own thing that it
doesn’t really make sense to think of it as “yet another queue. ”
Another view on Kafka—and one of our motivating lenses in designing and building
it—was to think of it as a kind of real-time version of Hadoop. Hadoop lets you store
and periodically process file data at a very large scale. Kafka lets you store and contin‐
uously process streams of data, also at a large scale. At a technical level, there are defi‐
nitely similarities, and many people see the emerging area of stream processing as a
superset of the kind of batch processing people have done with Hadoop and its vari‐
ous processing layers. What this comparison misses is that the use cases that continu‐
ous, low-latency processing opens up are quite different from those that naturally fall
on a batch processing system. Whereas Hadoop and big data targeted analytics appli‐
cations, often in the data warehousing space, the low-latency nature of Kafka makes it
applicable for the kind of core applications that directly power a business. This makes
sense: events in a business are happening all the time, and the ability to react to them
as they occur makes it much easier to build services that directly power the operation
of the business, feed back into customer experiences, and so on.
xvi | Foreword to the First Edition

=== PAGE 22 ===
The final area Kafka gets compared to is ETL or data integration tools. After all, these
tools move data around, and Kafka moves data around. There is some validity to this
as well, but I think the core difference is that Kafka has inverted the problem. Rather
than a tool for scraping data out of one system and inserting it into another, Kafka is
a platform oriented around real-time streams of events. This means that not only can
it connect off-the-shelf applications and data systems, it can also power custom appli‐
cations built to trigger off of these same data streams. We think this architecture cen‐
tered around streams of events is a really important thing. In some ways these flows
of data are the most central aspect of a modern digital company, as important as the
cash flows you’ d see in a financial statement.
The ability to combine these three areas—to bring all the streams of data together
across all the use cases—is what makes the idea of a streaming platform so appealing
to people.
Still, all of this is a bit different, and learning how to think and build applications ori‐
ented around continuous streams of data is quite a mindshift if you are coming from
the world of request/response-style applications and relational databases. This book is
absolutely the best way to learn about Kafka, from internals to APIs, written by some
of the people who know it best. I hope you enjoy reading it as much as I have!
— Jay Kreps
Cofounder and CEO at Confluent
Foreword to the First Edition | xvii

=== PAGE 24 ===
Preface
The greatest compliment you can give an author of a technical book is “This is the
book I wish I had when I got started with this subject. ” This is the goal we set for our‐
selves when we started writing this book. We looked back at our experience writing
Kafka, running Kafka in production, and helping many companies use Kafka to build
software architectures and manage their data pipelines, and we asked ourselves,
“What are the most useful things we can share with new users to take them from
beginner to expert?” This book is a reflection of the work we do every day: run
Apache Kafka and help others use it in the best ways.
We included what we believe you need to know in order to successfully run Apache
Kafka in production and build robust and performant applications on top of it. We
highlighted the popular use cases: message buses for event-driven microservices,
stream-processing applications, and large-scale data pipelines. We also focused on
making the book general and comprehensive enough so it will be useful to anyone
using Kafka, no matter the use case or architecture. We cover practical matters such
as how to install and configure Kafka and how to use the Kafka APIs, and we also
dedicate space to Kafka’s design principles and reliability guarantees, and explore sev‐
eral of Kafka’s delightful architecture details: the replication protocol, controller, and
storage layer. We believe that knowledge of Kafka’s design and internals is not only a
fun read for those interested in distributed systems but is also incredibly useful for
those who are seeking to make informed decisions when they deploy Kafka in pro‐
duction and design applications that use Kafka. The better you understand how
Kafka works, the more you can make informed decisions regarding the many trade-
offs that are involved in engineering.
One of the problems in software engineering is that there is always more than one
way to do anything. Platforms such as Apache Kafka provide plenty of flexibility,
which is great for experts but makes for a steep learning curve for beginners. Very
often, Apache Kafka tells you how to use a feature but not why you should or
shouldn’t use it. Whenever possible, we try to clarify the existing choices, the
xix

=== PAGE 25 ===
tradeoffs involved, and when you should and shouldn’t use the different options pre‐
sented by Apache Kafka.
Who Should Read This Book
Kafka: The Definitive Guide was written for software engineers who develop applica‐
tions that use Kafka’s APIs, and for production engineers (also called SREs, DevOps,
or sysadmins) who install, configure, tune, and monitor Kafka in production. We also
wrote the book with data architects and data engineers in mind—those responsible
for designing and building an organization’s entire data infrastructure. Some of the
chapters, especially Chapters 3, 4, and 14, are geared toward Java developers. Those
chapters assume that the reader is familiar with the basics of the Java programming
language, including topics such as exception handling and concurrency. Other chap‐
ters, especially Chapters 2, 10, 12, and 13, assume the reader has some experience
running Linux and some familiarity with storage and network configuration in
Linux. The rest of the book discusses Kafka and software architectures in more gen‐
eral terms and does not assume special knowledge.
Another category of people who may find this book interesting are the managers and
architects who don’t work directly with Kafka but work with the people who do. It is
just as important that they understand the guarantees that Kafka provides and the
trade-offs that their employees and coworkers will need to make while building
Kafka-based systems. The book can provide ammunition to managers who would
like to get their staff trained in Apache Kafka or ensure that their teams know what
they need to know.
Conventions Used in This Book
The following typographical conventions are used in this book:
Italic
Indicates new terms, URLs, email addresses, filenames, and file extensions.
Constant width
Used for program listings, as well as within paragraphs to refer to program ele‐
ments such as variable or function names, databases, data types, environment
variables, statements, and keywords.
Constant width bold
Shows commands or other text that should be typed literally by the user.
Constant width italic
Shows text that should be replaced with user-supplied values or by values deter‐
mined by context.
xx | Preface

=== PAGE 26 ===
This element signifies a tip or suggestion.
This element signifies a general note.
This element indicates a warning or caution.
Using Code Examples
If you have a technical question or a problem using the code examples, please send
email to bookquestions@oreilly.com.
This book is here to help you get your job done. In general, if example code is offered
with this book, you may use it in your programs and documentation. Y ou do not
need to contact us for permission unless you’re reproducing a significant portion of
the code. For example, writing a program that uses several chunks of code from this
book does not require permission. Selling or distributing examples from O’Reilly
books does require permission. Answering a question by citing this book and quoting
example code does not require permission. Incorporating a significant amount of
example code from this book into your product’s documentation does require
permission.
We appreciate, but do not require, attribution. An attribution usually includes the
title, author, publisher, and ISBN. For example: “Kafka: The Definitive Guide by Gwen
Shapira, Todd Palino, Rajini Sivaram, and Krit Petty (O’Reilly). Copyright 2021 Chen
Shapira, Todd Palino, Rajini Sivaram, and Krit Petty, 978-1-491-93616-0. ”
If you feel your use of code examples falls outside fair use or the permission given
above, feel free to contact us at permissions@oreilly.com.
Preface | xxi

=== PAGE 27 ===
O’Reilly Online Learning
For more than 40 years, O’Reilly Media has provided technol‐
ogy and business training, knowledge, and insight to help
companies succeed.
Our unique network of experts and innovators share their knowledge and expertise
through books, articles, and our online learning platform. O’Reilly’s online learning
platform gives you on-demand access to live training courses, in-depth learning
paths, interactive coding environments, and a vast collection of text and video from
O’Reilly and 200+ other publishers. For more information, visit http://oreilly.com.
How to Contact Us
Please address comments and questions concerning this book to the publisher:
O’Reilly Media, Inc.
1005 Gravenstein Highway North
Sebastopol, CA 95472
800-998-9938 (in the United States or Canada)
707-829-0515 (international or local)
