because latency-sensitive applications perform tail reads and are served from the local
tier, so they benefit from the existing Kafka mechanism of efficiently using the page
cache to serve the data. Backfill and other applications recovering from a failure that
needs data older than what is in the local tier are served from the remote tier.
The dual-tier architecture used in tiered storage allows scaling storage independent of
memory and CPUs in a Kafka cluster. This enables Kafka to be a long-term storage
solution. This also reduces the amount of data stored locally on Kafka brokers, and
hence the amount of data that needs to be copied during recovery and rebalancing.
Log segments that are available in the remote tier need not be restored on the broker
or restored lazily and are served from the remote tier. Since not all data is stored on
the brokers, increasing the retention period no longer requires scaling the Kafka clus‐
ter storage and adding new nodes. At the same time, the overall data retention can
still be much longer, eliminating the need for separate data pipelines to copy the data
from Kafka to external stores, as done currently in many deployments.
The design of tiered storage is documented in detail in KIP-405, including a new
component—the RemoteLogManager and the interactions with existing functionality,
such as replicas catching up to the leader and leader elections.
One interesting result that is documented in KIP-405 is the performance implications
of tiered storage. The team implementing tiered storage measured performance in
several use cases. The first was using Kafka’s usual high-throughput workload. In that
case, latency increased a bit (from 21 ms in p99 to 25 ms), since brokers also have to
ship segments to remote storage. The second use case was when some consumers are
reading old data. Without tiered storage, consumers reading old data have a large
impact on latency (21 ms versus 60 ms p99), but with tiered storage enabled, the
150 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 180 ===
impact is significantly lower (25 ms versus 42 ms p99); this is because tiered storage
reads are read from HDFS or S3 via a network path. Network reads do not compete
with local reads on disk I/O or page cache, and leave the page cache intact with fresh
data.
This means that in addition to infinite storage, lower costs, and elasticity, tiered stor‐
age also delivers isolation between historical reads and real-time reads.
Partition Allocation
When you create a topic, Kafka first decides how to allocate the partitions between
brokers. Suppose you have 6 brokers and you decide to create a topic with 10 parti‐
tions and a replication factor of 3. Kafka now has 30 partition replicas to allocate to 6
brokers. When doing the allocations, the goals are:
• To spread replicas evenly among brokers—in our example, to make sure we allo‐
cate five replicas per broker.
• To make sure that for each partition, each replica is on a different broker. If parti‐
tion 0 has the leader on broker 2, we can place the followers on brokers 3 and 4,
but not on 2 and not both on 3.
• If the brokers have rack information (available in Kafka release 0.10.0 and
higher), then assign the replicas for each partition to different racks if possible.
This ensures that an event that causes downtime for an entire rack does not cause
complete unavailability for partitions.
To do this, we start with a random broker (let’s say 4) and start assigning partitions to
each broker in a round-robin manner to determine the location for the leaders. So
partition 0 leader will be on broker 4, partition 1 leader will be on broker 5, partition
2 will be on broker 0 (because we only have 6 brokers), and so on. Then, for each
partition, we place the replicas at increasing offsets from the leader. If the leader for
partition 0 is on broker 4, the first follower will be on broker 5 and the second on
broker 0. The leader for partition 1 is on broker 5, so the first replica is on broker 0
and the second on broker 1.
When rack awareness is taken into account, instead of picking brokers in numerical
order, we prepare a rack-alternating broker list. Suppose that we know that brokers 0
and 1 are on the same rack, and brokers 2 and 3 are on a separate rack. Instead of
picking brokers in the order of 0 to 3, we order them as 0, 2, 1, 3—each broker is
followed by a broker from a different rack ( Figure 6-5). In this case, if the leader for
partition 0 is on broker 2, the first replica will be on broker 1, which is on a com‐
pletely different rack. This is great, because if the first rack goes offline, we know that
we still have a surviving replica, and therefore the partition is still available. This will
Physical Storage | 151

=== PAGE 181 ===
be true for all our replicas, so we have guaranteed availability in the case of rack
failure.
Figure 6-5. Partitions and replicas assigned to brokers on different racks
Once we choose the correct brokers for each partition and replica, it is time to decide
which directory to use for the new partitions. We do this independently for each par‐
tition, and the rule is very simple: we count the number of partitions on each direc‐
tory and add the new partition to the directory with the fewest partitions. This means
that if you add a new disk, all the new partitions will be created on that disk. This is
because, until things balance out, the new disk will always have the fewest partitions.
Mind the Disk Space
Note that the allocation of partitions to brokers does not take avail‐
able space or existing load into account, and that allocation of par‐
titions to disks takes the number of partitions into account but not
the size of the partitions. This means that if some brokers have
more disk space than others (perhaps because the cluster is a mix
of older and newer servers), some partitions are abnormally large,
or you have disks of different sizes on the same broker, you need to
be careful with the partition allocation.
File Management
Retention is an important concept in Kafka—Kafka does not keep data forever, nor
does it wait for all consumers to read a message before deleting it. Instead, the Kafka
administrator configures a retention period for each topic—either the amount of time
to store messages before deleting them or how much data to store before older mes‐
sages are purged.
Because finding the messages that need purging in a large file and then deleting a
portion of the file is both time-consuming and error prone, we instead split each par‐
tition into segments. By default, each segment contains either 1 GB of data or a week
152 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 182 ===
of data, whichever is smaller. As a Kafka broker is writing to a partition, if the seg‐
ment limit is reached, it closes the file and starts a new one.
The segment we are currently writing to is called an active segment. The active seg‐
ment is never deleted, so if you set log retention to only store a day of data, but each
segment contains five days of data, you will really keep data for five days because we
can’t delete the data before the segment is closed. If you choose to store data for a
week and roll a new segment every day, you will see that every day we will roll a new
segment while deleting the oldest segment—so most of the time the partition will
have seven segments.
As you learned in Chapter 2, a Kafka broker will keep an open file handle to every
segment in every partition—even inactive segments. This leads to an usually high
number of open file handles, and the OS must be tuned accordingly.
File Format
Each segment is stored in a single data file. Inside the file, we store Kafka messages
and their offsets. The format of the data on the disk is identical to the format of the
messages that we send from the producer to the broker and later from the broker to
the consumers. Using the same message format on disk and over the wire is what
allows Kafka to use zero-copy optimization when sending messages to consumers,
and also avoid decompressing and recompressing messages that the producer already
compressed. As a result, if we decide to change the message format, both the wire
protocol and the on-disk format need to change, and Kafka brokers need to know
how to handle cases in which files contain messages of two formats due to upgrades.
Kafka messages consist of user payload and system headers. User payload includes an
optional key, a value, and an optional collection of headers, where each header is its
own key/value pair.
Starting with version 0.11 (and the v2 message format), Kafka producers always send
messages in batches. If you send a single message, the batching adds a bit of overhead.
But with two messages or more per batch, the batching saves space, which reduces
network and disk usage. This is one of the reasons why Kafka performs better with
linger.ms=10—the small delay increases the chance that more messages will be sent
together. Since Kafka creates a separate batch per partition, producers that write to
fewer partitions will be more efficient as well. Note that Kafka producers can include
multiple batches in the same produce request. This means that if you are using
compression on the producer (recommended!), sending larger batches means better
compression both over the network and on the broker disks.
Message batch headers include:
Physical Storage | 153

=== PAGE 183 ===
• A magic number indicating the current version of the message format (here we’re
documenting v2).
• The offset of the first message in the batch and the difference from the offset of
the last message—those are preserved even if the batch is later compacted and
some messages are removed. The offset of the first message is set to 0 when the
producer creates and sends the batch. The broker that first persists this batch (the
partition leader) replaces this with the real offset.
• The timestamps of the first message and the highest timestamp in the batch. The
timestamps can be set by the broker if the timestamp type is set to append time
rather than create time.
• Size of the batch, in bytes.
• The epoch of the leader that received the batch (this is used when truncating
messages after leader election; KIP-101 and KIP-279 explain the usage in detail).
• Checksum for validating that the batch is not corrupted.
• Sixteen bits indicating different attributes: compression type, timestamp type
(timestamp can be set at the client or at the broker), and whether the batch is part
of a transaction or is a control batch.
• Producer ID, producer epoch, and the first sequence in the batch—these are all
used for exactly-once guarantees.
• And, of course, the set of messages that are part of the batch.
As you can see, the batch header includes a lot of information. The records them‐
selves also have system headers (not to be confused with headers that can be set by
users). Each record includes:
• Size of the record, in bytes
• Attributes—currently there are no record-level attributes, so this isn’t used
• The difference between the offset of the current record and the first offset in the
batch
• The difference, in milliseconds, between the timestamp of this record and the
first timestamp in the batch
• The user payload: key, value, and headers
Note that there is very little overhead to each record, and most of the system infor‐
mation is at the batch level. Storing the first offset and timestamp of the batch in the
header and only storing the difference in each record dramatically reduces the over‐
head of each record, making larger batches more efficient.
154 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 184 ===
In addition to message batches that contain user data, Kafka also has control
batches—indicating transactional commits, for instance. Those are handled by the
consumer and not passed to the user application, and currently they include a version
and a type indicator: 0 for an aborted transaction, 1 for a commit.
If you wish to see all this for yourself, Kafka brokers ship with the DumpLogSegment
tool, which allows you to look at a partition segment in the filesystem and examine its
contents. Y ou can run the tool using:
  bin/kafka-run-class.sh kafka.tools.DumpLogSegments
If you choose the --deep-iteration parameter, it will show you information about
messages compressed inside the wrapper messages.
Message Format Down Conversion
The message format documented earlier was introduced in version
0.11. Since Kafka supports upgrading brokers before all the clients
are upgraded, it had to support any combination of versions
between the broker, producer, and consumer. Most combinations
work with no issues—new brokers will understand the old message
format from producers, and new producers will know to send old
format messages to old brokers. But there is a challenging situation
when a new producer sends v2 messages to new brokers: the mes‐
sage is stored in v2 format, but an old consumer that doesn’t sup‐
port v2 format tries to read it. In this scenario, the broker will need
to convert the message from v2 format to v1, so the consumer will
be able to parse it. This conversion uses far more CPU and mem‐
ory than normal consumption, so it is best avoided. KIP-188 intro‐
duced several important health metrics, among them
FetchMessageConversionsPerSec and MessageConversions
TimeMs. If your organization is still using old clients, we recom‐
mend checking the metrics and upgrading the clients as soon as
