Configuring Consumers | 91

=== PAGE 121 ===
the number of consumers does not divide the number of partitions in each topic
neatly.
RoundRobin
Takes all the partitions from all subscribed topics and assigns them to consumers
sequentially, one by one. If C1 and C2 described previously used RoundRobin
assignment, C1 would have partitions 0 and 2 from topic T1, and partition 1
from topic T2. C2 would have partition 1 from topic T1, and partitions 0 and 2
from topic T2. In general, if all consumers are subscribed to the same topics (a
very common scenario), RoundRobin assignment will end up with all consumers
having the same number of partitions (or at most one partition difference).
Sticky
The Sticky Assignor has two goals: the first is to have an assignment that is as
balanced as possible, and the second is that in case of a rebalance, it will leave as
many assignments as possible in place, minimizing the overhead associated with
moving partition assignments from one consumer to another. In the common
case where all consumers are subscribed to the same topic, the initial assignment
from the Sticky Assignor will be as balanced as that of the RoundRobin Assignor.
Subsequent assignments will be just as balanced but will reduce the number of
partition movements. In cases where consumers in the same group subscribe to
different topics, the assignment achieved by Sticky Assignor is more balanced
than that of the RoundRobin Assignor.
Cooperative Sticky
This assignment strategy is identical to that of the Sticky Assignor but supports
cooperative rebalances in which consumers can continue consuming from the
partitions that are not reassigned. See “Consumer Groups and Partition Reba‐
lance” on page 80 to read more about cooperative rebalancing, and note that if
you are upgrading from a version older than 2.3, you’ll need to follow a specific
upgrade path in order to enable the cooperative sticky assignment strategy, so pay
extra attention to the upgrade guide.
The partition.assignment.strategy allows you to choose a partition assignment
strategy. The default is org.apache.kafka.clients.consumer.RangeAssignor,
which implements the Range strategy described earlier. Y ou can replace it with
org.apache.kafka.clients.consumer.RoundRobinAssignor, org.apache.kafka.
clients.consumer.StickyAssignor, or org.apache.kafka.clients.consumer.
CooperativeStickyAssignor. A more advanced option is to implement your own
assignment strategy, in which case partition.assignment.strategy should point to
the name of your class.
92 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 122 ===
client.id
This can be any string, and will be used by the brokers to identify requests sent from
the client, such as fetch requests. It is used in logging and metrics, and for quotas.
client.rack
By default, consumers will fetch messages from the leader replica of each partition.
However, when the cluster spans multiple datacenters or multiple cloud availability
zones, there are advantages both in performance and in cost to fetching messages
from a replica that is located in the same zone as the consumer. To enable fetching
from the closest replica, you need to set the client.rack configuration and identify
the zone in which the client is located.  Then you can configure the brokers to replace
the default replica.selector.class with org.apache.kafka.common.replica.Rack
AwareReplicaSelector.
Y ou can also implement your own replica.selector.class with custom logic for
choosing the best replica to consume from, based on client metadata and partition
metadata.
group.instance.id
This can be any unique string and is used to provide a consumer with static group
membership.
receive.buffer.bytes and send.buffer.bytes
These are the sizes of the TCP send and receive buffers used by the sockets when
writing and reading data. If these are set to –1, the OS defaults will be used. It can be a
good idea to increase these when producers or consumers communicate with brokers
in a different datacenter, because those network links typically have higher latency
and lower bandwidth.
offsets.retention.minutes
This is a broker configuration, but it is important to be aware of it due to its impact
on consumer behavior. As long as a consumer group has active members (i.e., mem‐
bers that are actively maintaining membership in the group by sending heartbeats),
the last offset committed by the group for each partition will be retained by Kafka, so
it can be retrieved in case of reassignment or restart. However, once a group becomes
empty, Kafka will only retain its committed offsets to the duration set by this configu‐
ration—7 days by default. Once the offsets are deleted, if the group becomes active
again it will behave like a brand-new consumer group with no memory of anything it
consumed in the past. Note that this behavior changed a few times, so if you use
Configuring Consumers | 93

=== PAGE 123 ===
versions older than 2.1.0, check the documentation for your version for the expected
behavior.
Commits and Offsets
Whenever we call poll(), it returns records written to Kafka that consumers in our
group have not read yet. This means that we have a way of tracking which records
were read by a consumer of the group. As discussed before, one of Kafka’s unique
characteristics is that it does not track acknowledgments from consumers the way
many JMS queues do. Instead, it allows consumers to use Kafka to track their posi‐
tion (offset) in each partition.
We call the action of updating the current position in the partition an offset commit.
Unlike traditional message queues, Kafka does not commit records individually.
Instead, consumers commit the last message they’ve successfully processed from a
partition and implicitly assume that every message before the last was also success‐
fully processed.
How does a consumer commit an offset? It sends a message to Kafka, which updates a
special __consumer_offsets topic with the committed offset for each partition. As
long as all your consumers are up, running, and churning away, this will have no
impact. However, if a consumer crashes or a new consumer joins the consumer
group, this will trigger a rebalance. After a rebalance, each consumer may be assigned
a new set of partitions than the one it processed before. In order to know where to
pick up the work, the consumer will read the latest committed offset of each partition
and continue from there.
If the committed offset is smaller than the offset of the last message the client pro‐
cessed, the messages between the last processed offset and the committed offset will
be processed twice. See Figure 4-8.
Figure 4-8. Reprocessed messages
94 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 124 ===
If the committed offset is larger than the offset of the last message the client actually
processed, all messages between the last processed offset and the committed offset
will be missed by the consumer group. See Figure 4-9.
Figure 4-9. Missed messages between offsets
Clearly, managing offsets has a big impact on the client application. The
KafkaConsumer API provides multiple ways of committing offsets.
Which Offset Is Committed?
When committing offsets either automatically or without specify‐
ing the intended offsets, the default behavior is to commit the offset
after the last offset that was returned by poll(). This is important
to keep in mind when attempting to manually commit specific off‐
sets or seek to commit specific offsets. However, it is also tedious to
repeatedly read “Commit the offset that is one larger than the last
offset the client received from poll(), ” and 99% of the time it does
not matter. So, we are going to write “Commit the last offset” when
we refer to the default behavior, and if you need to manually
manipulate offsets, please keep this note in mind.
Automatic Commit
The easiest way to commit offsets is to allow the consumer to do it for you. If you
configure enable.auto.commit=true, then every five seconds the consumer will
commit the latest offset that your client received from poll(). The five-second inter‐
val is the default and is controlled by setting auto.commit.interval.ms. Just like
everything else in the consumer, the automatic commits are driven by the poll loop.
Whenever you poll, the consumer checks if it is time to commit, and if it is, it will
commit the offsets it returned in the last poll.
Commits and Offsets | 95

=== PAGE 125 ===
Before using this convenient option, however, it is important to understand the
consequences.
Consider that, by default, automatic commits occur every five seconds. Suppose that
we are three seconds after the most recent commit our consumer crashed. After the
rebalancing, the surviving consumers will start consuming the partitions that were
previously owned by the crashed broker. But they will start from the last offset com‐
mitted. In this case, the offset is three seconds old, so all the events that arrived in
those three seconds will be processed twice. It is possible to configure the commit
interval to commit more frequently and reduce the window in which records will be
duplicated, but it is impossible to completely eliminate them.
With autocommit enabled, when it is time to commit offsets, the next poll will com‐
mit the last offset returned by the previous poll. It doesn’t know which events were
actually processed, so it is critical to always process all the events returned by poll()
before calling poll() again. (Just like poll(), close() also commits offsets automati‐
cally.) This is usually not an issue, but pay attention when you handle exceptions or
exit the poll loop prematurely.
Automatic commits are convenient, but they don’t give developers enough control to
avoid duplicate messages.
Commit Current Offset
Most developers exercise more control over the time at which offsets are
committed—both to eliminate the possibility of missing messages and to reduce the
number of messages duplicated during rebalancing. The Consumer API has the
option of committing the current offset at a point that makes sense to the application
developer rather than based on a timer.
By setting enable.auto.commit=false, offsets will only be committed when the
application explicitly chooses to do so. The simplest and most reliable of the commit
APIs is commitSync(). This API will commit the latest offset returned by poll() and
return once the offset is committed, throwing an exception if the commit fails for
some reason.
It is important to remember that commitSync() will commit the latest offset returned
by poll(), so if you call commitSync() before you are done processing all the records
in the collection, you risk missing the messages that were committed but not pro‐
cessed, in case the application crashes. If the application crashes while it is still pro‐
cessing records in the collection, all the messages from the beginning of the most
recent batch until the time of the rebalance will be processed twice—this may or may
not be preferable to missing messages.
96 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 126 ===
Here is how we would use commitSync to commit offsets after we finished processing
the latest batch of messages:
Duration timeout = Duration.ofMillis(100);
while (true) {
    ConsumerRecords<String, String> records = consumer.poll(timeout);
    for (ConsumerRecord<String, String> record : records) {
        System.out.printf("topic = %s, partition = %d, offset =
            %d, customer = %s, country = %s\n",
            record.topic(), record.partition(),
            record.offset(), record.key(), record.value()); 
    }
    try {
        consumer.commitSync(); 
    } catch (CommitFailedException e) {
        log.error("commit failed", e) 
    }
}
Let’s assume that by printing the contents of a record, we are done processing it.
Y our application will likely do a lot more with the records—modify them, enrich
them, aggregate them, display them on a dashboard, or notify users of important
events. Y ou should determine when you are “done” with a record according to
your use case.
Once we are done “processing” all the records in the current batch, we call
commitSync to commit the last offset in the batch, before polling for additional
