from writing results to the output stream. The usual way of fencing zombies—using
an epoch—is used here. Kafka increments the epoch number associated with a
transactional.id when initTransaction() is invoked to initialize a transactional
producer. Send, commit, and abort requests from producers with the same
transactional.id but lower epochs will be rejected with the FencedProducer error. 
The older producer will not be able to write to the output stream and will be forced to
close(), preventing the zombie from introducing duplicate records. In Apache Kafka
2.5 and later, there is also an option to add consumer group metadata to the transac‐
tion metadata. This metadata will also be used for fencing, which will allow producers
with different transactional IDs to write to the same partitions while still fencing
against zombie instances.
Transactions are a producer feature for the most part—we create a transactional pro‐
ducer, begin the transaction, write records to multiple partitions, produce offsets in
order to mark records as already processed, and commit or abort the transaction. We
do all this from the producer. However, this isn’t quite enough—records written
transactionally, even ones that are part of transactions that were eventually aborted,
are written to partitions just like any other records. Consumers need to be configured
Transactions | 189

=== PAGE 219 ===
with the right isolation guarantees, otherwise we won’t have the exactly-once guaran‐
tees we expected.
We control the consumption of messages that were written transactionally by setting
the isolation.level configuration. If set to read_committed, calling
consumer.poll() after subscribing to a set of topics will return messages that were
either part of a successfully committed transaction or that were written nontransac‐
tionally; it will not return messages that were part of an aborted transaction or a
transaction that is still open. The default isolation.level value, read_uncommitted,
will return all records, including those that belong to open or aborted transactions. 
Configuring read_committed mode does not guarantee that the application will get
all messages that are part of a specific transaction. It is possible to subscribe to only a
subset of topics that were part of the transaction and therefore get a subset of the
messages. In addition, the application can’t know when transactions begin or end, or
which messages are part of which transaction.
Figure 8-2 shows which records are visible to a consumer in read_committed mode
compared to a consumer with the default read_uncommitted mode.
Figure 8-2. Consumers in read_committed mode will lag behind consumers with default
configuration
To guarantee that messages will be read in order, read_committed mode will not
return messages that were produced after the point when the first still-open transac‐
tion began (known as the Last Stable Offset, or LSO). Those messages will be with‐
held until that transaction is committed or aborted by the producer, or until they
reach transaction.timeout.ms (default of 15 minutes) and are aborted by the
broker. Holding a transaction open for a long duration will introduce higher end-to-
end latency by delaying consumers.
Our simple stream processing job will have exactly-once guarantees on its output
even if the input was written nontransactionally. The atomic multipartition produce
guarantees that if the output records were committed to the output topic, the offset of
190 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 220 ===
the input records was also committed for that consumer, and as a result the input
records will not be processed again.
What Problems Aren’t Solved by Transactions?
As explained earlier, transactions were added to Kafka to provide multipartition
atomic writes (but not reads) and to fence zombie producers in stream processing
applications. As a result, they provide exactly-once guarantees when used within
chains of consume-process-produce stream processing tasks. In other contexts, trans‐
actions will either straight-out not work or will require additional effort in order to
achieve the guarantees we want.
The two main mistakes are assuming that exactly-once guarantees apply on actions
other than producing to Kafka, and that consumers always read entire transactions
and have information about transaction boundaries.
The following are a few scenarios in which Kafka transactions won’t help achieve
exactly-once guarantees.
Side effects while stream processing
Let’s say that the record processing step in our stream processing app includes send‐
ing email to users. Enabling exactly-once semantics in our app will not guarantee that
the email will only be sent once. The guarantee only applies to records written to
Kafka. Using sequence numbers to deduplicate records or using markers to abort or
to cancel a transaction works within Kafka, but it will not un-send an email. The
same is true for any action with external effects that is performed within the stream
processing app: calling a REST API, writing to a file, etc.
Reading from a Kafka topic and writing to a database
In this case, the application is writing to an external database rather than to Kafka.  In
this scenario, there is no producer involved—records are written to the database
using a database driver (likely JDBC) and offsets are committed to Kafka within the
consumer. There is no mechanism that allows writing results to an external database
and committing offsets to Kafka within a single transaction. Instead, we could man‐
age offsets in the database (as explained in Chapter 4) and commit both data and off‐
sets to the database in a single transaction—this would rely on the database’s
transactional guarantees rather than Kafka’s.
Transactions | 191

=== PAGE 221 ===
Microservices often need to update the database and publish a
message to Kafka within a single atomic transaction, so either both
will happen or neither will. As we’ve just explained in the last two
examples, Kafka transactions will not do this.
A common solution to this common problem is known as the out‐
box pattern . The microservice only publishes the message to a
Kafka topic (the “outbox”), and a separate message relay service
reads the event from Kafka and updates the database. Because, as
we’ve just seen, Kafka won’t guarantee an exactly-once update to
the database, it is important to make sure the update is idempotent.
Using this pattern guarantees that the message will eventually make
it to Kafka, the topic consumers, and the database—or to none of
those.
The inverse pattern—where a database table serves as the outbox
and a relay service makes sure updates to the table will also arrive
to Kafka as messages—is also used. This pattern is preferred when
built-in RDBMS constraints, such as uniqueness and foreign keys,
are useful. The Debezium project published an in-depth blog post
on the outbox pattern with detailed examples.
Reading data from a database, writing to Kafka, and from there writing to another database
It is very tempting to believe that we can build an app that will read data from a data‐
base, identify database transactions, write the records to Kafka, and from there write
records to another database, still maintaining the original transactions from the
source database.
Unfortunately, Kafka transactions don’t have the necessary functionality to support
these kinds of end-to-end guarantees. In addition to the problem with committing
both records and offsets within the same transaction, there is another difficulty:
read_committed guarantees in Kafka consumers are too weak to preserve database
transactions. Y es, a consumer will not see records that were not committed. But it is
not guaranteed to have seen all the records that were committed within the transac‐
tion because it could be lagging on some topics; it has no information to identify
transaction boundaries, so it can’t know when a transaction began and ended, and
whether it has seen some, none, or all of its records.
Copying data from one Kafka cluster to another
This one is more subtle—it is possible to support exactly-once guarantees when copy‐
ing data from one Kafka cluster to another. There is a description of how this is done
in the Kafka improvement proposal for adding exactly-once capabilities in Mirror‐
Maker 2.0. At the time of this writing, the proposal is still in draft, but the algorithm
is clearly described. This proposal includes the guarantee that each record in the
source cluster will be copied to the destination cluster exactly once.
192 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 222 ===
However, this does not guarantee that transactions will be atomic. If an app produces
several records and offsets transactionally, and then MirrorMaker 2.0 copies them to
another Kafka cluster, the transactional properties and guarantees will be lost during
the copy process. They are lost for the same reason when copying data from Kafka to
a relational database: the consumer reading data from Kafka can’t know or guarantee
that it is getting all the events in a transaction. For example, it can replicate part of a
transaction if it is only subscribed to a subset of the topics.
Publish/subscribe pattern
Here’s a slightly more subtle case. We’ve discussed exactly-once in the context of the
consume-process-produce pattern, but the publish/subscribe pattern is a very com‐
mon use case. Using transactions in a publish/subscribe use case provides some guar‐
antees: consumers configured with read_committed mode will not see records that
were published as part of a transaction that was aborted. But those guarantees fall
short of exactly-once. Consumers may process a message more than once, depending
on their own offset commit logic.
The guarantees Kafka provides in this case are similar to those provided by JMS
transactions but depend on consumers in read_committed mode to guarantee that
uncommitted transactions will remain invisible. JMS brokers withhold uncommitted
transactions from all consumers.
An important pattern to avoid is publishing a message and then
waiting for another application to respond before committing the
transaction. The other application will not receive the message
until after the transaction was committed, resulting in a deadlock.
How Do I Use Transactions?
Transactions are a broker feature and part of the Kafka protocol, so there are multiple
clients that support transactions.
The most common and most recommended way to use transactions is to enable
exactly-once guarantees in Kafka Streams. This way, we will not use transactions
directly at all, but rather Kafka Streams will use them for us behind the scenes to pro‐
vide the guarantees we need. Transactions were designed with this use case in mind,
so using them via Kafka Streams is the easiest and most likely to work as expected.
To enable exactly-once guarantees for a Kafka Streams application, we simply set the
processing.guarantee configuration to either exactly_once or exactly_once_
beta. That’s it.
Transactions | 193

=== PAGE 223 ===
exactly_once_beta is a slightly different method of handling
application instances that crash or hang with in-flight transactions.
This was introduced in release 2.5 to Kafka brokers, and in release
2.6 to Kafka Streams. The main benefit of this method is the ability
to handle many partitions with a single transactional producer and
therefore create more scalable Kafka Streams applications. There is
more information about the changes in the Kafka improvement
proposal where they were first discussed.
But what if we want exactly-once guarantees without using Kafka Streams? In this
case we will use transactional APIs directly. Here’s a snippet showing how this will
work. There is a full example in the Apache Kafka GitHub, which includes a demo
driver and a simple exactly-once processor that runs in separate threads:
Properties producerProps = new Properties();
producerProps.put(ProducerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, "localhost:9092");
producerProps.put(ProducerConfig.CLIENT_ID_CONFIG, "DemoProducer");
producerProps.put(ProducerConfig.TRANSACTIONAL_ID_CONFIG, transactionalId); 
producer = new KafkaProducer<>(producerProps);
Properties consumerProps = new Properties();
consumerProps.put(ConsumerConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG, "localhost:9092");
consumerProps.put(ConsumerConfig.GROUP_ID_CONFIG, groupId);
props.put(ConsumerConfig.ENABLE_AUTO_COMMIT_CONFIG, "false"); 
consumerProps.put(ConsumerConfig.ISOLATION_LEVEL_CONFIG, "read_committed"); 
consumer = new KafkaConsumer<>(consumerProps);
producer.initTransactions(); 
consumer.subscribe(Collections.singleton(inputTopic)); 
while (true) {
  try {
    ConsumerRecords<Integer, String> records =
      consumer.poll(Duration.ofMillis(200));
    if (records.count() > 0) {
      producer.beginTransaction(); 
      for (ConsumerRecord<Integer, String> record : records) {
        ProducerRecord<Integer, String> customizedRecord = transform(record); 
        producer.send(customizedRecord);
      }
