ers can choose to receive acknowledgments of sent messages when the message
was fully committed, when it was written to the leader, or when it was sent over
the network.
• Messages that are committed will not be lost as long as at least one replica
remains alive.
• Consumers can only read messages that are committed.
These basic guarantees can be used while building a reliable system, but in them‐
selves, they don’t make the system fully reliable. There are trade-offs involved in
building a reliable system, and Kafka was built to allow administrators and develop‐
ers to decide how much reliability they need by providing configuration parameters
that allow controlling these trade-offs. The trade-offs usually involve how important
it is to reliably and consistently store messages versus other important considerations,
such as availability, high throughput, low latency, and hardware costs.
162 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 192 ===
We next review Kafka’s replication mechanism, introduce terminology, and discuss
how reliability is built into Kafka. After that, we go over the configuration parameters
we just mentioned.
Replication
Kafka’s replication mechanism, with its multiple replicas per partition, is at the core
of all of Kafka’s reliability guarantees. Having a message written in multiple replicas is
how Kafka provides durability of messages in the event of a crash.
We explained Kafka’s replication mechanism in depth in Chapter 6, but let’s recap the
highlights here.
Each Kafka topic is broken down into partitions, which are the basic data building
blocks. A partition is stored on a single disk. Kafka guarantees the order of events
within a partition, and a partition can be either online (available) or offline (unavail‐
able). Each partition can have multiple replicas, one of which is a designated leader.
All events are produced to the leader replica and are usually consumed from the
leader replica as well. Other replicas just need to stay in sync with the leader and rep‐
licate all the recent events on time. If the leader becomes unavailable, one of the in-
sync replicas becomes the new leader (there is an exception to this rule, which we
discussed in Chapter 6).
A replica is considered in sync if it is the leader for a partition, or if it is a follower
that:
• Has an active session with ZooKeeper—meaning that it sent a heartbeat to Zoo‐
Keeper in the last 6 seconds (configurable).
• Fetched messages from the leader in the last 10 seconds (configurable).
• Fetched the most recent messages from the leader in the last 10 seconds. That is,
it isn’t enough that the follower is still getting messages from the leader; it must
have had no lag at least once in the last 10 seconds (configurable).
If a replica loses connection to ZooKeeper, stops fetching new messages, or falls
behind and can’t catch up within 10 seconds, the replica is considered out of sync. An
out-of-sync replica gets back into sync when it connects to ZooKeeper again and
catches up to the most recent message written to the leader. This usually happens
quickly after a temporary network glitch is healed but can take a while if the broker
the replica is stored on was down for a longer period of time.
Replication | 163

=== PAGE 193 ===
Out-of-Sync Replicas
In older versions of Kafka, it was not uncommon to see one or
more replicas rapidly flip between in-sync and out-of-sync status.
This was a sure sign that something was wrong with the cluster. A
relatively common cause was a large maximum request size and
large JVM heap that required tuning to prevent long garbage col‐
lection pauses that would cause the broker to temporarily discon‐
nect from ZooKeeper. These days the problem is very rare,
especially when using Apache Kafka release 2.5.0 and higher with
its default configurations for ZooKeeper connection timeout and
maximum replica lag. The use of JVM version 8 and above (now
the minimum version supported by Kafka) with G1 garbage collec‐
tor helped curb this problem, although tuning may still be required
for large messages. Generally speaking, Kafka’s replication protocol
became significantly more reliable in the years since the first edi‐
tion of the book was published. For details on the evolution of Kaf‐
ka’s replication protocol, refer to Jason Gustafson’s excellent talk,
“Hardening Apache Kafka Replication” , and Gwen Shapira’s over‐
view of Kafka improvements, “Please Upgrade Apache Kafka
Now”.
An in-sync replica that is slightly behind can slow down producers and consumers—
since they wait for all the in-sync replicas to get the message before it is committed.
Once a replica falls out of sync, we no longer wait for it to get messages. It is still
behind, but now there is no performance impact. The catch is that with fewer in-sync
replicas, the effective replication factor of the partition is lower, and therefore there is
a higher risk for downtime or data loss.
In the next section, we will look at what this means in practice.
Broker Configuration
There are three configuration parameters in the broker that change Kafka’s behavior
regarding reliable message storage. Like many broker configuration variables, these
can apply at the broker level, controlling configuration for all topics in the system,
and at the topic level, controlling behavior for a specific topic.
Being able to control reliability trade-offs at the topic level means that the same Kafka
cluster can be used to host reliable and nonreliable topics. For example, at a bank, the
administrator will probably want to set very reliable defaults for the entire cluster but
make an exception to the topic that stores customer complaints where some data loss
is acceptable.
Let’s look at these configuration parameters one by one and see how they affect the
reliability of message storage in Kafka and the trade-offs involved.
164 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 194 ===
Replication Factor
The topic-level configuration is replication.factor. At the broker level, we control
the default.replication.factor for automatically created topics.
Until this point in the book, we have assumed that topics had a replication factor of
three, meaning that each partition is replicated three times on three different brokers.
This was a reasonable assumption, as this is Kafka’s default, but this is a configuration
that users can modify. Even after a topic exists, we can choose to add or remove repli‐
cas and thereby modify the replication factor using Kafka’s replica assignment tool.
A replication factor of N allows us to lose N-1 brokers while still being able to read
and write data to the topic. So a higher replication factor leads to higher availability,
higher reliability, and fewer disasters. On the flip side, for a replication factor of N, we
will need at least N brokers and we will store N copies of the data, meaning we will
need N times as much disk space. We are basically trading availability for hardware.
So how do we determine the right number of replicas for a topic?  There are a few key
considerations:
Availability
A partition with just one replica will become unavailable even during a routine
restart of a single broker. The more replicas we have, the higher availability we
can expect.
Durability
Each replica is a copy of all the data in a partition. If a partition has a single rep‐
lica and the disk becomes unusable for any reason, we’ve lost all the data in the
partition. With more copies, especially on different storage devices, the probabil‐
ity of losing all of them is reduced.
Throughput
With each additional replica, we multiply the inter-broker traffic.  If we produce
to a partition at a rate of 10 MBps, then a single replica will not generate any rep‐
lication traffic. If we have 2 replicas, then we’ll have 10 MBps replication traffic,
with 3 replicas it will be 20 MBps, and with 5 replicas it will be 40 MBps. We need
to take this into account when planning the cluster size and capacity.
End-to-end latency
Each produced record has to be replicated to all in-sync replicas before it is avail‐
able for consumers. In theory, with more replicas, there is higher probability that
one of these replicas is a bit slow and therefore will slow the consumers down. In
practice, if one broker becomes slow for any reason, it will slow down every cli‐
ent that tries using it, regardless of replication factor.
Broker Configuration | 165

=== PAGE 195 ===
Cost
This is the most common reason for using a replication factor lower than 3 for
noncritical data. The more replicas we have of our data, the higher the storage
and network costs. Since many storage systems already replicate each block 3
times, it sometimes makes sense to reduce costs by configuring Kafka with a rep‐
lication factor of 2. Note that this will still reduce availability compared to a repli‐
cation factor of 3, but durability will be guaranteed by the storage device.
Placement of replicas is also very important. Kafka will always make sure each replica
for a partition is on a separate broker. In some cases, this is not safe enough. If all
replicas for a partition are placed on brokers that are on the same rack, and the top-
of-rack switch misbehaves, we will lose availability of the partition regardless of the
replication factor. To protect against rack-level misfortune, we recommend placing
brokers in multiple racks and using the broker.rack broker configuration parameter
to configure the rack name for each broker. If rack names are configured, Kafka will
make sure replicas for a partition are spread across multiple racks in order to guaran‐
tee even higher availability. When running Kafka in cloud environments, it is com‐
mon to consider availability zones as separate racks. In Chapter 6, we provided details
on how Kafka places replicas on brokers and racks.
Unclean Leader Election
This configuration is only available at the broker (and in practice, cluster-wide) level.
The parameter name is unclean.leader.election.enable, and by default it is set to
false.
As explained earlier, when the leader for a partition is no longer available, one of the
in-sync replicas will be chosen as the new leader. This leader election is “clean” in the
sense that it guarantees no loss of committed data—by definition, committed data
exists on all in-sync replicas.
But what do we do when no in-sync replica exists except for the leader that just
became unavailable?
This situation can happen in one of two scenarios:
• The partition had three replicas, and the two followers became unavailable (let’s
say two brokers crashed). In this situation, as producers continue writing to the
leader, all the messages are acknowledged and committed (since the leader is the
one and only in-sync replica). Now let’s say that the leader becomes unavailable
(oops, another broker crash). In this scenario, if one of the out-of-sync followers
starts first, we have an out-of-sync replica as the only available replica for the
partition.
• The partition had three replicas, and due to network issues, the two followers fell
behind so that even though they are up and replicating, they are no longer in
166 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 196 ===
sync. The leader keeps accepting messages as the only in-sync replica.  Now if the
leader becomes unavailable, there are only out-of-sync replicas available to
become leaders.
In both these scenarios, we need to make a difficult decision:
• If we don’t allow the out-of-sync replica to become the new leader, the partition
will remain offline until we bring the old leader (and the last in-sync replica)
back online. In some cases (e.g., memory chip needs replacement), this can take
many hours.
• If we do allow the out-of-sync replica to become the new leader, we are going to
lose all messages that were written to the old leader while that replica was out of
sync and also cause some inconsistencies in consumers. Why? Imagine that while
replicas 0 and 1 were not available, we wrote messages with offsets 100–200 to
replica 2 (then the leader). Now replica 2 is unavailable and replica 0 is back
online. Replica 0 only has messages 0–100 but not 100–200. If we allow replica 0
to become the new leader, it will allow producers to write new messages and
allow consumers to read them. So, now the new leader has completely new mes‐
sages 100–200. First, let’s note that some consumers may have read the old
messages 100–200, some consumers got the new 100–200, and some got a mix of
both. This can lead to pretty bad consequences when looking at things like
downstream reports. In addition, replica 2 will come back online and become a
follower of the new leader. At that point, it will delete any messages it got that
don’t exist on the current leader. Those messages will not be available to any con‐
sumer in the future.
In summary, if we allow out-of-sync replicas to become leaders, we risk data loss and
inconsistencies. If we don’t allow them to become leaders, we face lower availability as
we must wait for the original leader to become available before the partition is back
online.
