cussing partition moves.
log.retention.bytes
Another way to expire messages is based on the total number of bytes of messages
retained. This value is set using the log.retention.bytes parameter, and it is
applied per partition. This means that if you have a topic with 8 partitions, and
log.retention.bytes is set to 1 GB, the amount of data retained for the topic will be
8 GB at most. Note that all retention is performed for individual partitions, not the
topic. This means that should the number of partitions for a topic be expanded, the
retention will also increase if log.retention.bytes is used. Setting the value to –1
will allow for infinite retention.
30 | Chapter 2: Installing Kafka

=== PAGE 60 ===
Configuring Retention by Size and Time
If you have specified a value for both log.retention.bytes and
log.retention.ms (or another parameter for retention by time),
messages may be removed when either criteria is met. For example,
if log.retention.ms is set to 86400000 (1 day) and log.
retention.bytes is set to 1000000000 (1 GB), it is possible for
messages that are less than 1 day old to get deleted if the total vol‐
ume of messages over the course of the day is greater than 1 GB.
Conversely, if the volume is less than 1 GB, messages can be deleted
after 1 day even if the total size of the partition is less than 1 GB. It
is recommended, for simplicity, to choose either size- or time-
based retention—and not both—to prevent surprises and unwan‐
ted data loss, but both can be used for more advanced
configurations.
log.segment.bytes
The log retention settings previously mentioned operate on log segments, not indi‐
vidual messages. As messages are produced to the Kafka broker, they are appended to
the current log segment for the partition. Once the log segment has reached the size
specified by the log.segment.bytes parameter, which defaults to 1 GB, the log seg‐
ment is closed and a new one is opened. Once a log segment has been closed, it can be
considered for expiration. A smaller log segment size means that files must be closed
and allocated more often, which reduces the overall efficiency of disk writes.
Adjusting the size of the log segments can be important if topics have a low produce
rate. For example, if a topic receives only 100 megabytes per day of messages, and
log.segment.bytes is set to the default, it will take 10 days to fill one segment. As
messages cannot be expired until the log segment is closed, if log.retention.ms is
set to 604800000 (1 week), there will actually be up to 17 days of messages retained
until the closed log segment expires. This is because once the log segment is closed
with the current 10 days of messages, that log segment must be retained for 7 days
before it expires based on the time policy (as the segment cannot be removed until
the last message in the segment can be expired).
Retrieving Offsets by Timestamp
The size of the log segment also affects the behavior of fetching off‐
sets by timestamp. When requesting offsets for a partition at a spe‐
cific timestamp, Kafka finds the log segment file that was being
written at that time. It does this by using the creation and last
modified time of the file, and looking for a file that was created
before the timestamp specified and last modified after the time‐
stamp. The offset at the beginning of that log segment (which is
also the filename) is returned in the response.
Configuring the Broker | 31

=== PAGE 61 ===
log.roll.ms
Another way to control when log segments are closed is by using the log.roll.ms
parameter, which specifies the amount of time after which a log segment should be
closed. As with the log.retention.bytes and log.retention.ms parameters,
log.segment.bytes and log.roll.ms are not mutually exclusive properties. Kafka
will close a log segment either when the size limit is reached or when the time limit is
reached, whichever comes first. By default, there is no setting for log.roll.ms, which
results in only closing log segments by size.
Disk Performance When Using Time-Based Segments
When using a time-based log segment limit, it is important to con‐
sider the impact on disk performance when multiple log segments
are closed simultaneously. This can happen when there are many
partitions that never reach the size limit for log segments, as the
clock for the time limit will start when the broker starts and will
always execute at the same time for these low-volume partitions.
min.insync.replicas
When configuring your cluster for data durability, setting min.insync.replicas to 2
ensures that at least two replicas are caught up and “in sync” with the producer. This
is used in tandem with setting the producer config to ack “all” requests. This will
ensure that at least two replicas (leader and one other) acknowledge a write for it to
be successful. This can prevent data loss in scenarios where the leader acks a write,
then suffers a failure and leadership is transferred to a replica that does not have a
successful write. Without these durable settings, the producer would think it success‐
fully produced, and the message(s) would be dropped on the floor and lost. However,
configuring for higher durability has the side effect of being less efficient due to the
extra overhead involved, so clusters with high-throughput that can tolerate occasional
message loss aren’t recommended to change this setting from the default of 1. See
Chapter 7 for more information.
message.max.bytes
The Kafka broker limits the maximum size of a message that can be produced, con‐
figured by the message.max.bytes parameter, which defaults to 1000000, or 1 MB.  A
producer that tries to send a message larger than this will receive an error back from
the broker, and the message will not be accepted. As with all byte sizes specified on
the broker, this configuration deals with compressed message size, which means that
producers can send messages that are much larger than this value uncompressed,
provided they compress to under the configured message.max.bytes size.
32 | Chapter 2: Installing Kafka

=== PAGE 62 ===
There are noticeable performance impacts from increasing the allowable message
size. Larger messages will mean that the broker threads that deal with processing net‐
work connections and requests will be working longer on each request. Larger mes‐
sages also increase the size of disk writes, which will impact I/O throughput. Other
storage solutions, such as blob stores and/or tiered storage, may be another method
of addressing large disk write issues, but will not be covered in this chapter.
Coordinating Message Size Configurations
The message size configured on the Kafka broker must be coordi‐
nated with the fetch.message.max.bytes configuration on con‐
sumer clients. If this value is smaller than message.max.bytes,
then consumers that encounter larger messages will fail to fetch
those messages, resulting in a situation where the consumer gets
stuck and cannot proceed. The same rule applies to the
replica.fetch.max.bytes configuration on the brokers when
configured in a cluster.
Selecting Hardware
Selecting an appropriate hardware configuration for a Kafka broker can be more art
than science. Kafka itself has no strict requirement on a specific hardware configura‐
tion and will run without issue on most systems. Once performance becomes a con‐
cern, however, there are several factors that can contribute to the overall performance
bottlenecks: disk throughput and capacity, memory, networking, and CPU. When
scaling Kafka very large, there can also be constraints on the number of partitions
that a single broker can handle due to the amount of metadata that needs to be upda‐
ted. Once you have determined which performance types are the most critical for
your environment, you can select an optimized hardware configuration appropriate
for your budget.
Disk Throughput
The performance of producer clients will be most directly influenced by the through‐
put of the broker disk that is used for storing log segments.  Kafka messages must be
committed to local storage when they are produced, and most clients will wait until at
least one broker has confirmed that messages have been committed before consider‐
ing the send successful. This means that faster disk writes will equal lower produce
latency.
The obvious decision when it comes to disk throughput is whether to use traditional
spinning hard disk drives (HDDs) or solid-state disks (SSDs). SSDs have drastically
lower seek and access times and will provide the best performance. HDDs, on the
other hand, are more economical and provide more capacity per unit. Y ou can also
Selecting Hardware | 33

=== PAGE 63 ===
improve the performance of HDDs by using more of them in a broker, whether by
having multiple data directories or by setting up the drives in a redundant array of
independent disks (RAID) configuration. Other factors, such as the specific drive
technology (e.g., serial attached storage or serial ATA), as well as the quality of the
drive controller, will affect throughput. Generally, observations show that HDD
drives are typically more useful for clusters with very high storage needs but aren’t
accessed as often, while SSDs are better options if there is a very large number of cli‐
ent connections.
Disk Capacity
Capacity is the other side of the storage discussion. The amount of disk capacity that
is needed is determined by how many messages need to be retained at any time. If the
broker is expected to receive 1 TB of traffic each day, with 7 days of retention, then
the broker will need a minimum of 7 TB of usable storage for log segments. Y ou
should also factor in at least 10% overhead for other files, in addition to any buffer
that you wish to maintain for fluctuations in traffic or growth over time.
Storage capacity is one of the factors to consider when sizing a Kafka cluster and
determining when to expand it. The total traffic for a cluster can be balanced across
the cluster by having multiple partitions per topic, which will allow additional brok‐
ers to augment the available capacity if the density on a single broker will not suffice.
The decision on how much disk capacity is needed will also be informed by the repli‐
cation strategy chosen for the cluster (which is discussed in more detail in Chapter 7).
Memory
The normal mode of operation for a Kafka consumer is reading from the end of the
partitions, where the consumer is caught up and lagging behind the producers very
little, if at all. In this situation, the messages the consumer is reading are optimally
stored in the system’s page cache, resulting in faster reads than if the broker has to
reread the messages from disk. Therefore, having more memory available to the sys‐
tem for page cache will improve the performance of consumer clients.
Kafka itself does not need much heap memory configured for the Java Virtual
Machine (JVM). Even a broker that is handling 150,000 messages per second and a
data rate of 200 megabits per second can run with a 5 GB heap. The rest of the system
memory will be used by the page cache and will benefit Kafka by allowing the system
to cache log segments in use. This is the main reason it is not recommended to have
Kafka colocated on a system with any other significant application, as it will have to
share the use of the page cache. This will decrease the consumer performance for
Kafka.
34 | Chapter 2: Installing Kafka

=== PAGE 64 ===
Networking
The available network throughput will specify the maximum amount of traffic that
Kafka can handle. This can be a governing factor, combined with disk storage, for
cluster sizing. This is complicated by the inherent imbalance between inbound and
outbound network usage that is created by Kafka’s support for multiple consumers. A
producer may write 1 MB per second for a given topic, but there could be any num‐
ber of consumers that create a multiplier on the outbound network usage. Other
operations, such as cluster replication (covered in Chapter 7 ) and mirroring (dis‐
cussed in Chapter 10), will also increase requirements. Should the network interface
become saturated, it is not uncommon for cluster replication to fall behind, which
can leave the cluster in a vulnerable state. To prevent the network from being a major
governing factor, it is recommended to run with at least 10 Gb NICs (Network Inter‐
face Cards). Older machines with 1 Gb NICs are easily saturated and aren’t
recommended.
CPU
Processing power is not as important as disk and memory until you begin to scale
Kafka very large, but it will affect overall performance of the broker to some extent.
Ideally, clients should compress messages to optimize network and disk usage. The
Kafka broker must decompress all message batches, however, in order to validate the
checksum of the individual messages and assign offsets. It then needs to recompress
the message batch in order to store it on disk. This is where most of Kafka’s require‐
ment for processing power comes from. This should not be the primary factor in
selecting hardware, however, unless clusters become very large with hundreds of
nodes and millions of partitions in a single cluster. At that point, selecting more per‐
formant CPU can help reduce cluster sizes.
Kafka in the Cloud
