they lag more—if the price increases, it will take longer to notice than with a
smaller window. Kafka Streams also includes a session window, where the size of
390 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 420 ===
the window is defined by a period of inactivity. The developer defines a session
gap, and all events that arrive continuously with gaps smaller than the defined
session gap belong to the same session. A gap in arrivals will define a new ses‐
sion, and all events arriving after the gap, but before the next gap, will belong to
the new session.
How often the window moves (advance interval)
Five-minute averages can update every minute, second, or every time there is a
new event. Windows for which the size is a fixed time interval are called hopping
windows. When the advance interval is equal to the window size, it is called a
tumbling window.
How long the window remains updatable (grace period)
Our five-minute moving average calculated the average for the 00:00–00:05 win‐
dow. Now, an hour later, we are getting a few more input records with their event
time showing 00:02. Do we update the result for the 00:00–00:05 period? Or do
we let bygones be bygones? Ideally, we’ll be able to define a certain time period
during which events will get added to their respective time slice. For example, if
the events were delayed up to four hours, we should recalculate the results and
update. If events arrive later than that, we can ignore them.
Windows can be aligned to clock time—i.e., a five-minute window that moves every
minute will have the first slice as 00:00–00:05 and the second as 00:01–00:06. Or it
can be unaligned and simply start whenever the app started, and then the first slice
can be 03:17–03:22. See Figure 14-2  for the difference between these two types of
windows.
Figure 14-2. Tumbling window versus hopping window
Stream Processing Concepts | 391

=== PAGE 421 ===
Processing Guarantees
A key requirement for stream processing applications is the ability to process each
record exactly once, regardless of failures. Without exactly-once guarantees, stream
processing can’t be used in cases where accurate results are needed. As discussed in
detail in Chapter 8 , Apache Kafka has support for exactly-once semantics with a
transactional and idempotent producer. Kafka Streams uses Kafka’s transactions to
implement exactly-once guarantees for stream processing applications. Every applica‐
tion that uses the Kafka Streams library can enable exactly-once guarantees by setting
processing.guarantee to exactly_once. Kafka Streams version 2.6 or later includes
a more efficient exactly-once implementation that requires Kafka brokers of version
2.5 or later. This efficient implementation can be enabled by setting processing.
guarantee to exactly_once_beta.
Stream Processing Design Patterns
Every stream processing system is different—from the basic combination of a con‐
sumer, processing logic, and producer, to involved clusters like Spark Streaming with
its machine learning libraries, and much in between. But there are some basic design
patterns, which are known solutions to common requirements of stream processing
architectures. We’ll review a few of those well-known patterns and show how they are
used with a few examples.
Single-Event Processing
The most basic pattern of stream processing is the processing of each event in isola‐
tion. This is also known as a map/filter pattern because it is commonly used to filter
unnecessary events from the stream or transform each event. (The term map is based
on the map/reduce pattern in which the map stage transforms events and the reduce
stage aggregates them.)
In this pattern, the stream processing app consumes events from the stream, modifies
each event, and then produces the events to another stream. An example is an app
that reads log messages from a stream and writes ERROR events into a high-priority
stream and the rest of the events into a low-priority stream. Another example is an
application that reads events from a stream and modifies them from JSON to Avro.
Such applications do not need to maintain state within the application because each
event can be handled independently. This means that recovering from app failures or
load-balancing is incredibly easy as there is no need to recover state; we can simply
hand off the events to another instance of the app to process.
392 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 422 ===
This pattern can be easily handled with a simple producer and consumer, as seen in
Figure 14-3.
Figure 14-3. Single-event processing topology
Processing with Local State
Most stream processing applications are concerned with aggregating information,
especially window aggregation. An example of this is finding the minimum and max‐
imum stock prices for each day of trading and calculating a moving average.
These aggregations require maintaining a state. In our example, in order to calculate
the minimum and average price each day, we need to store the minimum value, the
sum, and the number of records we’ve seen up until the current time.
All this can be done using local state (rather than a shared state) because each opera‐
tion in our example is a group by aggregate. That is, we perform the aggregation per
stock symbol, not on the entire stock market in general. We use a Kafka partitioner to
make sure that all events with the same stock symbol are written to the same parti‐
tion. Then, each instance of the application will get all the events from the partitions
that are assigned to it (this is a Kafka consumer guarantee). This means that each
instance of the application can maintain state for the subset of stock symbols that are
written to the partitions that are assigned to it. See Figure 14-4.
Stream Processing Design Patterns | 393

=== PAGE 423 ===
Figure 14-4. Topology for event processing with local state
Stream processing applications become significantly more complicated when the
application has local state. There are several issues a stream processing application
must address:
Memory usage
The local state ideally fits into the memory available to the application instance.
Some local stores allow spilling to disk, but this has significant performance
impact.
Persistence
We need to make sure the state is not lost when an application instance shuts
down and that the state can be recovered when the instance starts again or is
replaced by a different instance. This is something that Kafka Streams handles
very well—local state is stored in-memory using embedded RocksDB, which also
persists the data to disk for quick recovery after restarts. But all the changes to
the local state are also sent to a Kafka topic. If a stream’s node goes down, the
local state is not lost—it can be easily re-created by rereading the events from the
Kafka topic. For example, if the local state contains “current minimum for IBM =
167.19, ” we store this in Kafka so that later we can repopulate the local cache
from this data. Kafka uses log compaction for these topics to make sure they
don’t grow endlessly and that re-creating the state is always feasible.
394 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 424 ===
Rebalancing
Partitions sometimes get reassigned to a different consumer. When this happens,
the instance that loses the partition must store the last good state, and the
instance that receives the partition must know to recover the correct state.
Stream processing frameworks differ in how much they help the developer manage
the local state they need. If our application requires maintaining local state, we make
sure to check the framework and its guarantees. We’ll include a short comparison
guide at the end of the chapter, but as we all know, software changes quickly and
stream processing frameworks doubly so.
Multiphase Processing/Repartitioning
Local state is great if we need a group by type of aggregate. But what if we need a
result that uses all available information? For example, suppose we want to publish
the top 10 stocks each day—the 10 stocks that gained the most from opening to clos‐
ing during each day of trading. Obviously, nothing we do locally on each application
instance is enough because all the top 10 stocks could be in partitions assigned to
other instances. What we need is a two-phase approach. First, we calculate the daily
gain/loss for each stock symbol. We can do this on each instance with a local state.
Then we write the results to a new topic with a single partition. This partition will be
read by a single application instance that can then find the top 10 stocks for the day.
The second topic, which contains just the daily summary for each stock symbol, is
obviously much smaller with significantly less traffic than the topics that contain the
trades themselves, and therefore it can be processed by a single instance of the appli‐
cation. Sometimes more steps are needed to produce the result. See Figure 14-5.
This type of multiphase processing is very familiar to those who write MapReduce
code, where you often have to resort to multiple reduce phases. If you’ve ever written
map-reduce code, you’ll remember that you needed a separate app for each reduce
step. Unlike MapReduce, most stream processing frameworks allow including all
steps in a single app, with the framework handling the details of which application
instance (or worker) will run each step.
Stream Processing Design Patterns | 395

=== PAGE 425 ===
Figure 14-5. Topology that includes both local state and repartitioning steps
Processing with External Lookup: Stream-Table Join
Sometimes stream processing requires integration with data external to the stream—
validating transactions against a set of rules stored in a database or enriching click‐
stream information with data about the users who clicked.
The obvious idea on how to perform an external lookup for data enrichment is some‐
thing like this: for every click event in the stream, look up the user in the profile data‐
base and write an event that includes the original click, plus the user age and gender,
to another topic. See Figure 14-6.
Figure 14-6. Stream processing that includes an external data source
The problem with this obvious idea is that an external lookup adds significant latency
to the processing of every record—usually between 5 and 15 milliseconds. In many
cases, this is not feasible. Often the additional load this places on the external data
store is also not acceptable—stream processing systems can often handle 100K–500K
396 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 426 ===
events per second, but the database can only handle perhaps 10K events per second at
reasonable performance. There is also added complexity around availability—our
application will need to handle situations when the external DB is not available.
To get good performance and availability, we need to cache the information from the
database in our stream processing application. Managing this cache can be challeng‐
ing though—how do we prevent the information in the cache from getting stale? If
we refresh events too often, we are still hammering the database, and the cache isn’t
helping much. If we wait too long to get new events, we are doing stream processing
with stale information.
But if we can capture all the changes that happen to the database table in a stream of
events, we can have our stream processing job listen to this stream and update the
cache based on database change events. Capturing changes to the database as events
in a stream is known as change data capture (CDC), and Kafka Connect has multiple
connectors capable of performing CDC and converting database tables to a stream of
change events. This allows us to keep our own private copy of the table and be noti‐
fied whenever there is a database change event so we can update our own copy
accordingly. See Figure 14-7.
Figure 14-7. Topology joining a table and a stream of events, removing the need to
involve an external data source in stream processing
Then, when we get click events, we can look up the user_id at our local state and
enrich the event. And because we are using a local state, this scales a lot better and
will not affect the database and other apps using it.
We refer to this as a stream-table join because one of the streams represents changes
to a locally cached table.
Stream Processing Design Patterns | 397

=== PAGE 427 ===
Table-Table Join
In the previous section we discussed how a table and a stream of update events are
equivalent. We’ve discussed in detail how this works when joining a stream and a
table. There is no reason why we can’t have those materialized tables in both sides of
the join operation.
Joining two tables is always nonwindowed and joins the current state of both tables at
the time the operation is performed. With Kafka Streams, we can perform an equi-
join, in which both tables have the same key that is partitioned in the same way, and
therefore the join operation can be efficiently distributed between a large number of
application instances and machines.
Kafka Streams also supports foreign-key join of two tables—the key of one stream
