sumer Uber engineers wrote called Helix consumer. This consumer takes its partition
assignment from the Apache Helix controller rather than as a result of an agreement
between the consumers (see Chapter 4 for details on how this is done in Kafka). As a
result, the Helix consumer can avoid rebalances and instead listen to changes in the
assigned partitions that arrive from Helix.
Uber engineering wrote a blog post  describing the architecture in more detail and
showing the improvements they experienced. uReplicator’s dependency on Apache
Helix introduces a new component to learn and manage, adding complexity to any
deployment. As we saw earlier, MirrorMaker 2.0 solves many of these scalability and
fault-tolerance issues of legacy MirrorMaker without any external dependencies.
LinkedIn Brooklin
Like Uber, LinkedIn was also using legacy MirrorMaker for transferring data between
Kafka clusters. As the scale of the data grew, it also ran into similar scalability issues
and operational challenges. So LinkedIn built a mirroring solution on top of its data
streaming system called Brooklin. Brooklin is a distributed service that can stream
data between different heterogeneous data source and target systems, including
Kafka. As a generic data ingestion framework that can be used to build data pipelines,
Brooklin supports multiple use cases:
• Data bridge to feed data into stream processing systems from different data
sources
• Stream change data capture (CDC) events from different data stores
• Cross-cluster mirroring solution for Kafka
Brooklin is a scalable distributed system designed for high reliability and has been
tested with Kafka at scale. It is used to mirror trillions of messages a day and has been
optimized for stability, performance, and operability. Brooklin comes with a REST
API for management operations. It is a shared service that can process a large num‐
ber of data pipelines, enabling the same service to mirror data across multiple Kafka
clusters.
260 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 290 ===
Confluent Cross-Datacenter Mirroring Solutions
At the same time that Uber developed its uReplicator, Confluent independently
developed Confluent Replicator. Despite the similarities in names, the projects have
almost nothing in common—they are different solutions to two different sets of Mir‐
rorMaker problems. Like MirrorMaker 2.0, which came later, Confluent’s Replicator
is based on the Kafka Connect framework and was developed to address issues its
enterprise customers encountered when using legacy MirrorMaker to manage their
multicluster deployments.
For customers who use stretch clusters for their operational simplicity and low RTO
and RPO, Confluent added Multi-Region Cluster (MRC) as a built-in feature of Con‐
fluent Server, which is a commercial component of the Confluent Platform.  MRC
extends Kafka’s support for stretch clusters using asynchronous replicas to limit
impact on latency and throughput. Like stretch clusters, this is suitable for replication
between availability zones or regions with latencies less than 50 ms and benefits from
transparent client failover. For distant clusters with less reliable networks, a new
built-in feature called Cluster Linking was added to Confluent Server more recently.
Cluster Linking extends Kafka’s offset-preserving intra-cluster replication protocol to
mirror data between clusters.
Let’s look at the features supported by each of these solutions:
Confluent Replicator
Confluent Replicator is a mirroring tool similar to MirrorMaker that relies on the
Kafka Connect framework for cluster management and can run on existing Con‐
nect clusters. Both support data replication for different topologies as well as
migration of consumer offsets and topic configuration. There are some differ‐
ences in features between the two. For example, MirrorMaker supports ACL
migration and offset translation for any client, but Replicator doesn’t migrate
ACLs and supports offset translation (using timestamp interceptor) only for Java
clients. Replicator doesn’t have the concept of local and remote topics like Mir‐
rorMaker, but it supports aggregate topics. Like MirrorMaker, Replicator also
avoids replication cycles but does so using provenance headers. Replicator pro‐
vides a range of metrics, like replication lag, and can be monitored using its
REST API or Control Center UI. It also supports schema migration between clus‐
ters and can perform schema translation.
Multi-Region Clusters (MRC)
We saw earlier that stretch clusters provide simple transparent failover and fail‐
back for clients without the need for offset translation or client restarts. But
stretch clusters require datacenters to be close to each other and provide a stable
low-latency network to enable synchronous replication between datacenters.
MRC is also suitable only for datacenters within a 50 ms latency, but it uses a
Other Cross-Cluster Mirroring Solutions | 261

=== PAGE 291 ===
combination of synchronous and asynchronous replication to limit impact on
producer performance and provide higher network tolerance.
As we saw earlier, Apache Kafka supports fetching from followers to enable cli‐
ents to fetch from their closest brokers based on rack ID, thereby reducing cross-
datacenter traffic. Confluent Server also adds the concept of observers, which are
asynchronous replicas that do not join the ISR and hence have no impact on pro‐
ducers using acks=all but are able to deliver records to consumers. Operators
can configure synchronous replication within a region and asynchronous repli‐
cation between regions to benefit from both low latency and high durability at
the same time. Replica placement constraints in Confluent Server allow you to
specify a minimum number of replicas per region using rack IDs to ensure that
replicas are spread across regions to guarantee durability. Confluent Platform 6.1
also adds automatic observer promotion with configurable criteria, enabling fast
failover without data loss automatically. When min.insync.replicas falls below
a configured minimum number of synchronous replicas, observers that have
caught up are automatically promoted to allow them to join ISRs, bringing the
number of ISRs back up to the required minimum. The promoted observers use
synchronous replication and may impact throughput, but the cluster remains
operational throughout without data loss even if a region fails. When the failed
region recovers, observers are automatically demoted, getting the cluster back to
normal performance levels.
Cluster Linking
Cluster Linking, introduced as a preview feature in Confluent Platform 6.0,
builds inter-cluster replication directly into the Confluent Server. By using the
same protocol as inter-broker replication within a cluster, Cluster Linking per‐
forms offset-preserving replication across clusters, enabling seamless migration
of clients without any need for offset translation. Topic configuration, partitions,
consumer offsets, and ACLs are all kept synchronized between the two clusters to
enable failover with low RTO if a disaster occurs. A cluster link defines the con‐
figuration of a directional flow from a source cluster to a destination cluster.
Leader brokers of mirror partitions in the destination cluster fetch partition data
from the corresponding source leaders, while followers in the destination repli‐
cate from their local leader using the standard replication mechanism in Kafka.
Mirror topics are marked as read-only in the destination to prevent any local
produce to these topics, ensuring that mirror topics are logically identical to their
source topic.
Cluster Linking provides operational simplicity without the need for separate
clusters like Connect clusters and is more performant than external tools since it
avoids decompression and recompression during mirroring. Unlike MRC, there
is no option for synchronous replication, and client failover is a manual process
that requires client restart. But Cluster Linking may be used with distant
262 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 292 ===
datacenters with unreliable high-latency networks and reduces cross-datacenter
traffic by replicating only once between datacenters. It is suitable for cluster
migration and topic sharing use cases.
Summary
We started the chapter by describing the reasons you may need to manage more than
a single Kafka cluster and then proceeded to describe several common multicluster
architectures, ranging from the simple to the very complex. We went into the details
of implementing failover architecture for Kafka and compared the different options
currently available. Then we proceeded to discuss the available tools. Starting with
Apache Kafka’s MirrorMaker, we went into many details of using it in production. We
finished by reviewing alternative options that solve some of the issues you might
encounter with MirrorMaker.
Whichever architecture and tools you end up using, remember that multicluster con‐
figuration and mirroring pipelines should be monitored and tested just like every‐
thing else you take into production. Because multicluster management in Kafka can
be easier than it is with relational databases, some organizations treat it as an after‐
thought and neglect to apply proper design, planning, testing, deployment automa‐
tion, monitoring, and maintenance. By taking multicluster management seriously,
preferably as part of a holistic disaster or geodiversity plan for the entire organization
that involves multiple applications and data stores, you will greatly increase the chan‐
ces of successfully managing multiple Kafka clusters.
Summary | 263

=== PAGE 294 ===
CHAPTER 11
Securing Kafka
Kafka is used for a variety of use cases ranging from website activity tracking and
metrics pipelines to patient record management and online payments. Each use case
has different requirements in terms of security, performance, reliability, and availabil‐
ity. While it is always preferable to use the strongest and latest security features avail‐
able, trade-offs are often necessary since increased security impacts performance,
cost, and user experience. Kafka supports several standard security technologies with
a range of configuration options to tailor security to each use case.
Like performance and reliability, security is an aspect of the system that must be
addressed for the system as a whole, rather than component by component. The secu‐
rity of a system is only as strong as the weakest link, and security processes and poli‐
cies must be enforced across the system, including the underlying platform. The
customizable security features in Kafka enable integration with existing security
infrastructure to build a consistent security model that applies to the entire system.
In this chapter, we will discuss the security features in Kafka and see how they address
different aspects of security and contribute toward the overall security of the Kafka
installation. Throughout the chapter, we will share best practices, potential threats,
and techniques to mitigate these threats. We will also review additional measures that
can be adopted to secure ZooKeeper and the rest of the platform.
Locking Down Kafka
Kafka uses a range of security procedures to establish and maintain confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of data:
• Authentication establishes your identity and determines who you are.
• Authorization determines what you are allowed to do.
265

=== PAGE 295 ===
• Encryption protects your data from eavesdropping and tampering.
• Auditing tracks what you have done or have attempted to do.
• Quotas control how much resources you can utilize.
To understand how to lock down a Kafka deployment, let’s first look at how data
flows through a Kafka cluster. Figure 11-1 shows the main steps in an example data
flow. In this chapter, we will use this example flow to examine the different ways in
which Kafka can be configured to protect data at every step to guarantee security of
the entire deployment.
Figure 11-1. Data flow in a Kafka cluster
1. Alice produces a customer order record to a partition of the topic named
customerOrders. The record is sent to the leader of the partition.
2. The leader broker writes the record to its local log file.
3. A follower broker fetches the message from the leader and writes to its local rep‐
lica log file.
4. The leader broker updates the partition state in ZooKeeper to update in-sync
replicas, if required.
5. Bob consumes customer order records from the topic customerOrders. Bob
receives the record produced by Alice.
6. An internal application processes all messages arriving in customerOrders to
produce real-time metrics on popular products.
266 | Chapter 11: Securing Kafka

=== PAGE 296 ===
A secure deployment must guarantee:
Client authenticity
When Alice establishes a client connection to the broker, the broker should
authenticate the client to ensure that the message is really coming from Alice.
Server authenticity
Before sending a message to the leader broker, Alice’s client should verify that the
connection is to the real broker.
Data privacy
