      Map<TopicPartition, OffsetAndMetadata> offsets = consumerOffsets();
      producer.sendOffsetsToTransaction(offsets, consumer.groupMetadata()); 
      producer.commitTransaction(); 
    }
  } catch (ProducerFencedException|InvalidProducerEpochException e) { 
    throw new KafkaException(String.format(
      "The transactional.id %s is used by another process", transactionalId));
194 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 224 ===
  } catch (KafkaException e) {
    producer.abortTransaction(); 
    resetToLastCommittedPositions(consumer);
  }}
Configuring a producer with transactional.id makes it a transactional pro‐
ducer capable of producing atomic multipartition writes. The transactional ID
must be unique and long-lived. Essentially it defines an instance of the
application.
Consumers that are part of the transactions don’t commit their own offsets—the
producer writes offsets as part of the transaction. So offset commit should be
disabled.
In this example, the consumer reads from an input topic. We will assume that the
records in the input topic were also written by a transactional producer (just for
fun—there is no such requirement for the input). To read transactions cleanly
(i.e., ignore in-flight and aborted transactions), we will set the consumer isolation
level to read_committed. Note that the consumer will still read nontransactional
writes, in addition to reading committed transactions.
The first thing a transactional producer must do is initialize. This registers the
transactional ID, bumps up the epoch to guarantee that other producers with the
same ID will be considered zombies, and aborts older in-flight transactions from
the same transactional ID.
Here we are using the subscribe consumer API, which means that partitions
assigned to this instance of the application can change at any point as a result of
rebalance. Prior to release 2.5, which introduced API changes from KIP-447, this
was much more challenging. Transactional producers had to be statically
assigned a set of partitions, because the transaction fencing mechanism relied on
the same transactional ID being used for the same partitions (there was no zom‐
bie fencing protection if the transactional ID changed). KIP-447 added new APIs,
used in this example, that attach consumer-group information to the transaction,
and this information is used for fencing. When using this method, it also makes
sense to commit transactions whenever the related partitions are revoked.
We consumed records, and now we want to process them and produce results.
This method guarantees that everything that is produced from the time it was
called, until the transaction is either committed or aborted, is part of a single
atomic transaction.
This is where we process the records—all our business logic goes here.
Transactions | 195

=== PAGE 225 ===
As we explained earlier in the chapter, it is important to commit the offsets as
part of the transaction. This guarantees that if we fail to produce results, we won’t
commit the offsets for records that were not, in fact, processed. This method
commits offsets as part of the transaction. Note that it is important not to com‐
mit offsets in any other way—disable offset auto-commit, and don’t call any of
the consumer commit APIs. Committing offsets by any other method does not
provide transactional guarantees.
We produced everything we needed, we committed offsets as part of the transac‐
tion, and it is time to commit the transaction and seal the deal. Once this method
returns successfully, the entire transaction has made it through, and we can con‐
tinue to read and process the next batch of events.
If we got this exception, it means we are the zombie. Somehow our application
froze or disconnected, and there is a newer instance of the app with our transac‐
tional ID running. Most likely the transaction we started has already been abor‐
ted and someone else is processing those records. Nothing to do but die
gracefully.
If we got an error while writing a transaction, we can abort the transaction, set
the consumer position back, and try again.
Transactional IDs and Fencing
Choosing the transactional ID for producers is important and a bit more challenging
than it seems. Assigning the transactional ID incorrectly can lead to either applica‐
tion errors or loss of exactly-once guarantees. The key requirements are that the
transactional ID will be consistent for the same instance of the application between
restarts and is different for different instances of the application, otherwise the brok‐
ers will not be able to fence off zombie instances.
Until release 2.5, the only way to guarantee fencing was to statically map the transac‐
tional ID to partitions. This guaranteed that each partition will always be consumed
with the same transactional ID. If a producer with transactional ID A processed mes‐
sages from topic T and lost connectivity, and the new producer that replaces it has
transactional ID B, and later producer A comes back as a zombie, zombie A will not
be fenced because the ID doesn’t match that of the new producer B. We want pro‐
ducer A to always be replaced by producer A, and the new producer A will have a
higher epoch number and zombie A will be properly fenced away. In those releases,
the previous example would be incorrect—transactional IDs are assigned randomly
to threads without making sure the same transactional ID is always used to write to
the same partition.
196 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 226 ===
In Apache Kafka 2.5, KIP-447 introduced a second method of fencing based on con‐
sumer group metadata for fencing in addition to transactional IDs. We use the pro‐
ducer offset commit method and pass as an argument the consumer group metadata
rather than just the consumer group ID.
Let’s say that we have topic T1 with two partitions, t-0 and t-1. Each is consumed by a
separate consumer in the same group; each consumer passes records to a matching
transactional producer—one with transactional ID A and the other with transactional
ID B; and they are writing output to topic T2 partitions 0 and 1, respectively.
Figure 8-3 illustrates this scenario.
Figure 8-3. Transactional record processor
As illustrated in Figure 8-4, if the application instance with consumer A and producer
A becomes a zombie, consumer B will start processing records from both partitions.
If we want to guarantee that no zombies write to partition 0, consumer B can’t just
start reading from partition 0 and writing to partition 0 with transactional ID B.
Instead the application will need to instantiate a new producer, with transactional ID
A, to safely write to partition 0 and fence the old transactional ID A. This is wasteful.
Instead, we include the consumer group information in the transactions. Transac‐
tions from producer B will show that they are from a newer generation of the
consumer group, and therefore they will go through, while transactions from the
now-zombie producer A will show an old generation of the consumer group and will
be fenced.
Figure 8-4. Transactional record processor after a rebalance
Transactions | 197

=== PAGE 227 ===
How Transactions Work
We can use transactions by calling the APIs without understanding how they work.
But having some mental model of what is going on under the hood will help us trou‐
bleshoot applications that do not behave as expected.
The basic algorithm for transactions in Kafka was inspired by Chandy-Lamport snap‐
shots, in which “marker” control messages are sent into communication channels,
and consistent state is determined based on the arrival of the marker. Kafka transac‐
tions use marker messages to indicate that transactions are committed or aborted
across multiple partitions—when the producer decides to commit a transaction, it
sends a “commit” message to the transaction coordinator, which then writes commit
markers to all partitions involved in a transaction. But what happens if the producer
crashes after only writing commit messages to a subset of the partitions? Kafka trans‐
actions solve this by using two-phase commit and a transaction log. At a high level,
the algorithm will:
1. Log the existence of an ongoing transaction, including the partitions involved
2. Log the intent to commit or abort—once this is logged, we are doomed to com‐
mit or abort eventually
3. Write all the transaction markers to all the partitions
4. Log the completion of the transaction
To implement this basic algorithm, Kafka needs a transaction log. We use an internal
topic called __transaction_state.
Let’s see how this algorithm works in practice by going through the inner workings of
the transactional API calls we’ve used in the preceding code snippet.
Before we begin the first transaction, producers need to register as transactional by
calling initTransaction(). This request is sent to a broker that will be the transac‐
tion coordinator for this transactional producer. Each broker is the transactional coor‐
dinator for a subset of the producers, just like each broker is the consumer group
coordinator for a subset of the consumer groups. The transaction coordinator for
each transactional ID is the leader of the partition of the transaction log the transac‐
tional ID is mapped to.
The initTransaction() API registers a new transactional ID with the coordinator,
or increments the epoch of an existing transactional ID in order to fence off previous
producers that may have become zombies. When the epoch is incremented, pending
transactions will be aborted.
198 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 228 ===
The next step for the producer is to call beginTransaction(). This API call isn’t part
of the protocol—it simply tells the producer that there is now a transaction in pro‐
gress. The transaction coordinator on the broker side is still unaware that the transac‐
tion began. However, once the producer starts sending records, each time the
producer detects that it is sending records to a new partition, it will also send Add
PartitionsToTxnRequest to the broker informing it that there is a transaction in
progress for this producer, and that additional partitions are part of the transaction.
This information will be recorded in the transaction log.
When we are done producing results and are ready to commit, we start by commit‐
ting offsets for the records we’ve processed in this transaction. Committing offsets
can be done at any time but must be done before the transaction is committed. Call‐
ing sendOffsetsToTransaction() will send a request to the transaction coordinator
that includes the offsets and also the consumer group ID. The transaction coordina‐
tor will use the consumer group ID to find the group coordinator and commit the
offsets as a consumer group normally would.
Now it is time to commit—or abort. Calling commitTransaction() or abort
Transaction() will send an EndTransactionRequest to the transaction coordinator.
The transaction coordinator will log the commit or abort intention to the transaction
log. Once this step is successful, it is the transaction coordinator’s responsibility to
complete the commit (or abort) process. It writes a commit marker to all the parti‐
tions involved in the transaction, then writes to the transaction log that the commit
completed successfully. Note that if the transaction coordinator shuts down or
crashes after logging the intention to commit and before completing the process, a
new transaction coordinator will be elected, pick up the intent to commit from the
transaction log, and complete the process.
If a transaction is not committed or aborted within transaction.timeout.ms, the
transaction coordinator will abort it automatically.
Transactions | 199

=== PAGE 229 ===
Each broker that receives records from transactional or idempotent
producers will store the producer/transactional IDs in memory,
together with related state for each of the last five batches sent by
the producer: sequence numbers, offsets, and such. This state is
stored for transactional.id.expiration.ms milliseconds after
the producer stopped being active (seven days by default). This
allows the producer to resume activity without running into
UNKNOWN_PRODUCER_ID errors. It is possible to cause something sim‐
ilar to a memory leak in the broker by creating new idempotent
producers or new transactional IDs at a very high rate but never
reusing them. Three new idempotent producers per second, accu‐
mulated over the course of a week, will result in 1.8 million pro‐
ducer state entries with a total of 9 million batch metadata stored,
using around 5 GB RAM. This can cause out-of-memory or severe
garbage collection issues on the broker. We recommend architect‐
ing the application to initialize a few long-lived producers when the
application starts up, and then reuse them for the lifetime of
the application. If this isn’t possible (Function as a Service makes
this difficult), we recommend lowering transactional.id.
expiration.ms so the IDs will expire faster, and therefore old state
