1. Add your jar to the classpath:
export CLASSPATH=$CLASSPATH:~./target/CountProducerInterceptor-1.0-
SNAPSHOT.jar
2. Create a config file that includes:
interceptor.classes=com.shapira.examples.interceptors.CountProducer
Interceptor counting.interceptor.window.size.ms=10000
3. Run the application as you normally would, but make sure to include the config‐
uration that you created in the previous step:
bin/kafka-console-producer.sh --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic
interceptor-test --producer.config producer.config
Quotas and Throttling
Kafka brokers have the ability to limit the rate at which messages are produced and
consumed. This is done via the quota mechanism. Kafka has three quota types: pro‐
duce, consume, and request. Produce and consume quotas limit the rate at which cli‐
ents can send and receive data, measured in bytes per second.  Request quotas limit
the percentage of time the broker spends processing client requests.
Quotas can be applied to all clients by setting default quotas, specific client-ids, spe‐
cific users, or both. User-specific quotas are only meaningful in clusters where secu‐
rity is configured and clients authenticate.
The default produce and consume quotas that are applied to all clients are part of the
Kafka broker configuration file. For example, to limit each producer to send no more
than 2 MBps on average, add the following configuration to the broker configuration
file: quota.producer.default=2M.
While not recommended, you can also configure specific quotas for certain clients
that override the default quotas in the broker configuration file. To allow clientA to
Quotas and Throttling | 73

=== PAGE 103 ===
produce 4 MBps and clientB 10 MBps, you can use the following: quota.
producer.override="clientA:4M,clientB:10M"
Quotas that are specified in Kafka’s configuration file are static, and you can only
modify them by changing the configuration and then restarting all the brokers. Since
new clients can arrive at any time, this is very inconvenient. Therefore the usual
method of applying quotas to specific clients is through dynamic configuration that
can be set using kafka-config.sh or the AdminClient API.
Let’s look at few examples:
bin/kafka-configs  --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --alter --add-config 'pro-
ducer_byte_rate=1024' --entity-name clientC --entity-type clients 
bin/kafka-configs  --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --alter --add-config 'pro-
ducer_byte_rate=1024,consumer_byte_rate=2048' --entity-name user1 --entity-type 
users 
bin/kafka-configs  --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --alter --add-config 'con-
sumer_byte_rate=2048' --entity-type users 
Limiting clientC (identified by client-id) to produce only 1024 bytes per second
Limiting user1 (identified by authenticated principal) to produce only 1024 bytes
per second and consume only 2048 bytes per second.
Limiting all users to consume only 2048 bytes per second, except users with more
specific override. This is the way to dynamically modify the default quota.
When a client reaches its quota, the broker will start throttling the client’s requests to
prevent it from exceeding the quota. This means that the broker will delay responses
to client requests; in most clients this will automatically reduce the request rate (since
the number of in-flight requests is limited) and bring the client traffic down to a level
allowed by the quota. To protect the broker from misbehaved clients sending addi‐
tional requests while being throttled, the broker will also mute the communication
channel with the client for the period of time needed to achieve compliance with the
quota.
The throttling behavior is exposed to clients via produce-throttle-time-avg,
produce-throttle-time-max, fetch-throttle-time-avg, and fetch-throttle-
time-max, the average and the maximum amount of time a produce request and fetch
request was delayed due to throttling. Note that this time can represent throttling due
to produce and consume throughput quotas, request time quotas, or both. Other
types of client requests can only be throttled due to request time quotas, and those
will also be exposed via similar metrics.
74 | Chapter 3: Kafka Producers: Writing Messages to Kafka

=== PAGE 104 ===
If you use async Producer.send() and continue to send messages
at a rate that is higher than the rate the broker can accept (whether
due to quotas or just plain old capacity), the messages will first be
queued in the client memory. If the rate of sending continues to be
higher than the rate of accepting messages, the client will eventu‐
ally run out of buffer space for storing the excess messages and will
block the next Producer.send() call. If the timeout delay is insuffi‐
cient to let the broker catch up to the producer and clear some
space in the buffer, eventually Producer.send() will throw
TimeoutException. Alternatively, some of the records that were
already placed in batches will wait for longer than delivery.time
out.ms and expire, resulting in calling the send() callback with a
TimeoutException. It is therefore important to plan and monitor
to make sure that the broker capacity over time will match the rate
at which producers are sending data.
Summary
We began this chapter with a simple example of a producer—just 10 lines of code that
send events to Kafka. We added to the simple example by adding error handling and
experimenting with synchronous and asynchronous producing. We then explored the
most important producer configuration parameters and saw how they modify the
behavior of the producers. We discussed serializers, which let us control the format of
the events we write to Kafka. We looked in-depth at Avro, one of many ways to serial‐
ize events but one that is very commonly used with Kafka. We concluded the chapter
with a discussion of partitioning in Kafka and an example of an advanced custom
partitioning technique.
Now that we know how to write events to Kafka, in Chapter 4 we’ll learn all about
consuming events from Kafka.
Summary | 75

=== PAGE 106 ===
CHAPTER 4
Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka
Applications that need to read data from Kafka use a KafkaConsumer to subscribe to
Kafka topics and receive messages from these topics. Reading data from Kafka is a bit
different than reading data from other messaging systems, and there are a few unique
concepts and ideas involved. It can be difficult to understand how to use the Con‐
sumer API without understanding these concepts first. We’ll start by explaining some
of the important concepts, and then we’ll go through some examples that show the
different ways Consumer APIs can be used to implement applications with varying
requirements.
Kafka Consumer Concepts
To understand how to read data from Kafka, you first need to understand its con‐
sumers and consumer groups. The following sections cover those concepts.
Consumers and Consumer Groups
Suppose you have an application that needs to read messages from a Kafka topic, run
some validations against them, and write the results to another data store. In this
case, your application will create a consumer object, subscribe to the appropriate
topic, and start receiving messages, validating them, and writing the results. This may
work well for a while, but what if the rate at which producers write messages to the
topic exceeds the rate at which your application can validate them? If you are limited
to a single consumer reading and processing the data, your application may fall fur‐
ther and further behind, unable to keep up with the rate of incoming messages. Obvi‐
ously there is a need to scale consumption from topics. Just like multiple producers
can write to the same topic, we need to allow multiple consumers to read from the
same topic, splitting the data among them.
77

=== PAGE 107 ===
Kafka consumers are typically part of a consumer group. When multiple consumers
are subscribed to a topic and belong to the same consumer group, each consumer in
the group will receive messages from a different subset of the partitions in the topic.
Let’s take topic T1 with four partitions. Now suppose we created a new consumer, C1,
which is the only consumer in group G1, and use it to subscribe to topic T1. Con‐
sumer C1 will get all messages from all four T1 partitions. See Figure 4-1.
Figure 4-1. One consumer group with four partitions
If we add another consumer, C2, to group G1, each consumer will only get messages
from two partitions. Perhaps messages from partition 0 and 2 go to C1, and messages
from partitions 1 and 3 go to consumer C2. See Figure 4-2.
Figure 4-2. Four partitions split to two consumers in a group
If G1 has four consumers, then each will read messages from a single partition. See
Figure 4-3.
78 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 108 ===
Figure 4-3. Four consumers in a group with one partition each
If we add more consumers to a single group with a single topic than we have parti‐
tions, some of the consumers will be idle and get no messages at all. See Figure 4-4.
Figure 4-4. More consumers in a group than partitions means idle consumers
The main way we scale data consumption from a Kafka topic is by adding more con‐
sumers to a consumer group. It is common for Kafka consumers to do high-latency
operations such as write to a database or a time-consuming computation on the data.
In these cases, a single consumer can’t possibly keep up with the rate data flows into a
topic, and adding more consumers that share the load by having each consumer own
just a subset of the partitions and messages is our main method of scaling. This is a
good reason to create topics with a large number of partitions—it allows adding more
consumers when the load increases. Keep in mind that there is no point in adding
more consumers than you have partitions in a topic—some of the consumers will just
be idle. Chapter 2 includes some suggestions on how to choose the number of parti‐
tions in a topic.
In addition to adding consumers in order to scale a single application, it is very com‐
mon to have multiple applications that need to read data from the same topic. In fact,
one of the main design goals in Kafka was to make the data produced to Kafka topics
Kafka Consumer Concepts | 79

=== PAGE 109 ===
available for many use cases throughout the organization. In those cases, we want
each application to get all of the messages, rather than just a subset. To make sure an
application gets all the messages in a topic, ensure the application has its own con‐
sumer group. Unlike many traditional messaging systems, Kafka scales to a large
number of consumers and consumer groups without reducing performance.
In the previous example, if we add a new consumer group (G2) with a single con‐
sumer, this consumer will get all the messages in topic T1 independent of what G1 is
doing. G2 can have more than a single consumer, in which case they will each get a
subset of partitions, just like we showed for G1, but G2 as a whole will still get all the
messages regardless of other consumer groups. See Figure 4-5.
Figure 4-5. Adding a new consumer group, both groups receive all messages
To summarize, you create a new consumer group for each application that needs all
the messages from one or more topics. Y ou add consumers to an existing consumer
group to scale the reading and processing of messages from the topics, so each addi‐
tional consumer in a group will only get a subset of the messages.
Consumer Groups and Partition Rebalance
As we saw in the previous section, consumers in a consumer group share ownership
of the partitions in the topics they subscribe to.  When we add a new consumer to the
group, it starts consuming messages from partitions previously consumed by another
consumer. The same thing happens when a consumer shuts down or crashes; it leaves
the group, and the partitions it used to consume will be consumed by one of the
remaining consumers. Reassignment of partitions to consumers also happens when
80 | Chapter 4: Kafka Consumers: Reading Data from Kafka

=== PAGE 110 ===
1 Diagrams by Sophie Blee-Goldman, from her May 2020 blog post, “From Eager to Smarter in Apache Kafka
Consumer Rebalances”.
the topics the consumer group is consuming are modified (e.g., if an administrator
adds new partitions).
Moving partition ownership from one consumer to another is called a rebalance.
Rebalances are important because they provide the consumer group with high availa‐
bility and scalability (allowing us to easily and safely add and remove consumers), but
in the normal course of events they can be fairly undesirable.
There are two types of rebalances, depending on the partition assignment strategy
that the consumer group uses:1
Eager rebalances
During an eager rebalance, all consumers stop consuming, give up their owner‐
ship of all partitions, rejoin the consumer group, and get a brand-new partition
assignment. This is essentially a short window of unavailability of the entire con‐
