Monitor) does. This tool, open sourced by the Kafka team at LinkedIn, continually
produces and consumes data from a topic that is spread across all brokers in a cluster.
It measures the availability of both produce and consume requests on each broker, as
well as the total produce to consume latency. This type of monitoring is invaluable to
be able to externally verify that the Kafka cluster is operating as intended, since just
like consumer lag monitoring, the Kafka broker cannot report whether or not clients
are able to use the cluster properly.
Summary
Monitoring is a key aspect of running Apache Kafka properly, which explains why so
many teams spend a significant amount of their time perfecting that part of opera‐
tions. Many organizations use Kafka to handle petabyte-scale data flows. Assuring
that the data does not stop, and that messages are not lost, this is a critical business
requirement. It is also our responsibility to assist users with monitoring how their
applications use Kafka by providing the metrics that they need to do this.
378 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 408 ===
In this chapter we covered the basics of how to monitor Java applications, and specifi‐
cally the Kafka applications. We reviewed a subset of the numerous metrics available
in the Kafka broker, also touching on Java and OS monitoring, as well as logging. We
then detailed the monitoring available in the Kafka client libraries, including quota
monitoring. Finally, we discussed the use of external monitoring systems for con‐
sumer lag monitoring and end-to-end cluster availability. While certainly not an
exhaustive list of the metrics that are available, this chapter reviewed the most critical
ones to keep an eye on.
Summary | 379

=== PAGE 410 ===
CHAPTER 14
Stream Processing
Kafka was traditionally seen as a powerful message bus, capable of delivering streams
of events but without processing or transformation capabilities. Kafka’s reliable
stream delivery capabilities make it a perfect source of data for stream processing sys‐
tems. Apache Storm, Apache Spark Streaming, Apache Flink, Apache Samza, and
many more stream processing systems were built with Kafka often being their only
reliable data source.
With the increased popularity of Apache Kafka, first as a simple message bus and
later as a data integration system, many companies had a system containing many
streams of interesting data, stored for long amounts of time and perfectly ordered,
just waiting for some stream processing framework to show up and process them. In
other words, in the same way that data processing was significantly more difficult
before databases were invented, stream processing was held back by the lack of a
stream processing platform.
Starting from version 0.10.0, Kafka does more than provide a reliable source of data
streams to every popular stream processing framework. Now Kafka includes a power‐
ful stream processing library as part of its collection of client libraries, called Kafka
Streams (or sometimes Streams API). This allows developers to consume, process,
and produce events in their own apps, without relying on an external processing
framework.
We’ll begin the chapter by explaining what we mean by stream processing (since this
term is frequently misunderstood), then discuss some of the basic concepts of stream
processing and the design patterns that are common to all stream processing systems.
We’ll then dive into Apache Kafka’s stream processing library—its goals and architec‐
ture. We’ll give a small example of how to use Kafka Streams to calculate a moving
average of stock prices. We’ll then discuss other examples of good stream processing
381

=== PAGE 411 ===
use cases and finish off the chapter by providing a few criteria you can use when
choosing which stream processing framework (if any) to use with Apache Kafka.
This chapter is intended as just a quick introduction to the large and fascinating
world of stream processing and Kafka Streams. There are entire books written on
these subjects.
Some books cover the basic concepts of stream processing from a data architecture
perspective:
• Making Sense of Stream Processing by Martin Kleppmann (O’Reilly) discusses the
benefits of rethinking applications as stream processing applications and how to
reorient data architectures around the idea of event streams.
• Streaming Systems by Tyler Akidau, Slava Chernyak, and Reuven Lax (O’Reilly) is
a great general introduction to the topic of stream processing and some of the
basic ideas in the space.
• Flow Architectures by James Urquhart (O’Reilly) is targeted at CTOs and dis‐
cusses the implications of stream processing to the business.
Other books go into specific details of specific frameworks:
• Mastering Kafka Streams and ksqlDB by Mitch Seymour (O’Reilly)
• Kafka Streams in Action by William P . Bejeck Jr. (Manning)
• Event Streaming with Kafka Streams and ksqlDB  by William P . Bejeck Jr.
(Manning)
• Stream Processing with Apache Flink  by Fabian Hueske and Vasiliki Kalavri
(O’Reilly)
• Stream Processing with Apache Spark  by Gerard Maas and Francois Garillot
(O’Reilly)
Finally, Kafka Streams is still an evolving framework. Every major release deprecates
APIs and modifies semantics. This chapter documents APIs and semantics as of
Apache Kafka 2.8. We avoided using any API that was planned for deprecation in
release 3.0, but our discussion of join semantics and timestamp handling does not
include any of the changes planned for release 3.0.
What Is Stream Processing?
There is a lot of confusion about what stream processing means.  Many definitions
mix up implementation details, performance requirements, data models, and many
other aspects of software engineering. A similar thing has happened in the world of
relational databases—the abstract definitions of the relational model are getting
382 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 412 ===
forever entangled in the implementation details and specific limitations of the popu‐
lar database engines.
The world of stream processing is still evolving, and just because a specific popular
implementation does things in specific ways or has specific limitations doesn’t mean
that those details are an inherent part of processing streams of data.
Let’s start at the beginning: What is a data stream (also called an event stream or
streaming data)? First and foremost, a data stream is an abstraction representing an
unbounded dataset. Unbounded means infinite and ever growing. The dataset is
unbounded because over time, new records keep arriving. This definition is used by
Google, Amazon, and pretty much everyone else.
Note that this simple model (a stream of events) can be used to represent just about
every business activity we care to analyze. We can look at a stream of credit card
transactions, stock trades, package deliveries, network events going through a switch,
events reported by sensors in manufacturing equipment, emails sent, moves in a
game, etc. The list of examples is endless because pretty much everything can be seen
as a sequence of events.
There are a few other attributes of the event streams model, in addition to its
unbounded nature:
Event streams are ordered
There is an inherent notion of which events occur before or after other events.
This is clearest when looking at financial events. A sequence in which you first
put money in your account and later spend the money is very different from a
sequence at which you first spend the money and later cover your debt by depos‐
iting money back. The latter will incur overdraft charges, while the former will
not. Note that this is one of the differences between an event stream and a data‐
base table—records in a table are always considered unordered, and the “order
by” clause of SQL is not part of the relational model; it was added to assist in
reporting.
Immutable data records
Events, once occurred, can never be modified. A financial transaction that is can‐
celed does not disappear. Instead, an additional event is written to the stream,
recording a cancelation of a previous transaction. When a customer returns
merchandise to a shop, we don’t delete the fact that the merchandise was sold to
them earlier, rather we record the return as an additional event. This is another
difference between a data stream and a database table—we can delete or update
records in a table, but those are all additional transactions that occur in the data‐
base, and as such can be recorded in a stream of events that records all transac‐
tions. If you are familiar with binlogs, W ALs, or redo logs in databases, you can
see that if we insert a record into a table and later delete it, the table will no
What Is Stream Processing? | 383

=== PAGE 413 ===
longer contain the record, but the redo log will contain two transactions—the
insert and the delete.
Event streams are replayable
This is a desirable property. While it is easy to imagine nonreplayable streams
(TCP packets streaming through a socket are generally nonreplayable), for most
business applications, it is critical to be able to replay a raw stream of events that
occurred months (and sometimes years) earlier. This is required to correct errors,
try new methods of analysis, or perform audits. This is the reason we believe
Kafka made stream processing so successful in modern businesses—it allows
capturing and replaying a stream of events. Without this capability, stream pro‐
cessing would not be more than a lab toy for data scientists.
It is worth noting that neither the definition of event streams nor the attributes we
later listed say anything about the data contained in the events or the number of
events per second. The data differs from system to system—events can be tiny (some‐
times only a few bytes) or very large (XML messages with many headers); they can
also be completely unstructured key-value pairs, semi-structured JSON, or structured
Avro or Protobuf messages. While it is often assumed that data streams are “big data”
and involve millions of events per second, the same techniques we’ll discuss apply
equally well (and often better) to smaller streams of events with only a few events per
second or minute.
Now that we know what event streams are, it’s time to make sure we understand
stream processing. Stream processing refers to the ongoing processing of one or more
event streams. Stream processing is a programming paradigm—just like request-
response and batch processing. Let’s look at how different programming paradigms
compare to get a better understanding of how stream processing fits into software
architectures:
Request-response
This is the lowest-latency paradigm, with response times ranging from submilli‐
seconds to a few milliseconds, usually with the expectation that response times
will be highly consistent. The mode of processing is usually blocking—an
app sends a request and waits for the processing system to respond. In the data‐
base world, this paradigm is known as online transaction processing  (OLTP). 
Point-of-sale systems, credit card processing, and time-tracking systems typically
work in this paradigm.
Batch processing
This is the high-latency/high-throughput option. The processing system wakes
up at set times—every day at 2:00 a.m., every hour on the hour, etc. It reads all
required input (either all data available since the last execution, all data from the
beginning of month, etc.), writes all required output, and goes away until the
next time it is scheduled to run. Processing times range from minutes to hours,
384 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 414 ===
and users expect to read stale data when they are looking at results. In the data‐
base world, these are the data warehouse and business intelligence systems—data
is loaded in huge batches once a day, reports are generated, and users look at the
same reports until the next data load occurs. This paradigm often has great effi‐
ciency and economy of scale, but in recent years, businesses need the data avail‐
able in shorter timeframes in order to make decision-making more timely and
efficient. This puts huge pressure on systems that were written to exploit econ‐
omy of scale—not to provide low-latency reporting.
Stream processing
This is a continuous and nonblocking option. Stream processing fills the gap
between the request-response world, where we wait for events that take two
milliseconds to process, and the batch processing world, where data is processed
once a day and takes eight hours to complete. Most business processes don’t
require an immediate response within milliseconds but can’t wait for the next day
either. Most business processes happen continuously, and as long as the business
reports are updated continuously and the line of business apps can continuously
respond, the processing can proceed without anyone waiting for a specific
response within milliseconds. Business processes such as alerting on suspicious
credit transactions or network activity, adjusting prices in real-time based on
supply and demand, or tracking deliveries of packages are all a natural fit for
