ers on the failed broker. Say that we have a producer that produced messages to topic
A, partition 0, which had its lead replica on broker 5 and a follower replica on broker
3. After broker 5 fails, broker 3 becomes the new leader. The producer will discover
that the new leader is broker 3 via the metadata protocol and start producing to it.
Idempotent Producer | 183

=== PAGE 213 ===
But how will broker 3 know which sequences were already produced in order to
reject duplicates?
The leader keeps updating its in-memory producer state with the five last sequence
IDs every time a new message is produced. Follower replicas update their own in-
memory buffers every time they replicate new messages from the leader. This means
that when a follower becomes a leader, it already has the latest sequence numbers in
memory, and validation of newly produced messages can continue without any issues
or delays.
But what happens when the old leader comes back? After a restart, the old in-
memory producer state will no longer be in memory. To assist in recovery, brokers
take a snapshot of the producer state to a file when they shut down or every time a
segment is created. When the broker starts, it reads the latest state from a file. The
newly restarted broker then keeps updating the producer state as it catches up by rep‐
licating from the current leader, and it has the most current sequence IDs in memory
when it is ready to become a leader again.
What if a broker crashed and the last snapshot is not updated? Producer ID and
sequence ID are also part of the message format that is written to Kafka’s logs. During
crash recovery, the producer state will be recovered by reading the older snapshot and
also messages from the latest segment of each partition. A new snapshot will be
stored as soon as the recovery process completes.
An interesting question is what happens if there are no messages? Imagine that a cer‐
tain topic has two hours of retention time, but no new messages arrived in the last
two hours—there will be no messages to use to recover the state if a broker crashed.
Luckily, no messages also means no duplicates. We will start accepting messages
immediately (while logging a warning about the lack of state), and create the pro‐
ducer state from the new messages that arrive.
Limitations of the Idempotent Producer
Kafka’s idempotent producer only prevents duplicates in case of retries that are
caused by the producer’s internal logic. Calling producer.send() twice with the same
message will create a duplicate, and the idempotent producer won’t prevent it. This is
because the producer has no way of knowing that the two records that were sent are
in fact the same record. It is always a good idea to use the built-in retry mechanism of
the producer rather than catching producer exceptions and retrying from the applica‐
tion itself; the idempotent producer makes this pattern even more appealing—it is the
easiest way to avoid duplicates when retrying.
184 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 214 ===
It is also rather common to have applications that have multiple instances or even one
instance with multiple producers. If two of these producers attempt to send identical
messages, the idempotent producer will not detect the duplication. This scenario is
fairly common in applications that get data from a source—a directory with files, for
instance—and produce it to Kafka. If the application happened to have two instances
reading the same file and producing records to Kafka, we will get multiple copies of
the records in that file.
The idempotent producer will only prevent duplicates caused by
the retry mechanism of the producer itself, whether the retry is
caused by producer, network, or broker errors. But nothing else.
How Do I Use the Kafka Idempotent Producer?
This is the easy part. Add enable.idempotence=true to the producer configuration.
If the producer is already configured with acks=all, there will be no difference in
performance. By enabling idempotent producer, the following things will change:
• To retrieve a producer ID, the producer will make one extra API call when start‐
ing up.
• Each record batch sent will include the producer ID and the sequence ID for the
first message in the batch (sequence IDs for each message in the batch are
derived from the sequence ID of the first message plus a delta). These new fields
add 96 bits to each record batch (producer ID is a long, and sequence is an inte‐
ger), which is barely any overhead for most workloads.
• Brokers will validate the sequence numbers from any single producer instance
and guarantee the lack of duplicate messages.
• The order of messages produced to each partition will be guaranteed, through all
failure scenarios, even if max.in.flight.requests.per.connection is set to
more than 1 (5 is the default and also the highest value supported by the idempo‐
tent producer).
Idempotent Producer | 185

=== PAGE 215 ===
Idempotent producer logic and error handling improved signifi‐
cantly in version 2.5 (both on the producer side and the broker
side) as a result of KIP-360. Prior to release 2.5, the producer state
was not always maintained for long enough, which resulted in fatal
UNKNOWN_PRODUCER_ID errors in various scenarios (parti‐
tion reassignment had a known edge case where the new replica
became the leader before any writes happened from a specific pro‐
ducer, meaning that the new leader had no state for that partition).
In addition, previous versions attempted to rewrite the sequence
IDs in some error scenarios, which could lead to duplicates. In
newer versions, if we encounter a fatal error for a record batch, this
batch and all the batches that are in flight will be rejected. The user
who writes the application can handle the exception and decide
whether to skip those records or retry and risk duplicates and
reordering.
Transactions
As we mentioned in the introduction to this chapter, transactions  were added to
Kafka to guarantee the correctness of applications developed using Kafka Streams.  In
order for a stream processing application to generate correct results, each input
record must be processed exactly one time, and its processing result will be reflected
exactly one time, even in case of failure. Transactions in Apache Kafka allow stream
processing applications to generate accurate results. This, in turn, enables developers
to use stream processing applications in use cases where accuracy is a key
requirement.
It is important to keep in mind that transactions in Kafka were developed specifically
for stream processing applications. And therefore they were built to work with the
“consume-process-produce” pattern that forms the basis of stream processing appli‐
cations. Use of transactions can guarantee exactly-once semantics in this context—the
processing of each input record will be considered complete after the application’s
internal state has been updated and the results were successfully produced to output
topics. In “What Problems Aren’t Solved by Transactions?” on page 191, we’ll explore
a few scenarios where Kafka’s exactly-once guarantees will not apply.
Transactions is the name of the underlying mechanism. Exactly-
once semantics or exactly-once guarantees is the behavior of a
stream processing application. Kafka Streams uses transactions to
implement its exactly-once guarantees. Other stream processing
frameworks, such as Spark Streaming or Flink, use different mech‐
anisms to provide their users with exactly-once semantics.
186 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 216 ===
Transactions Use Cases
Transactions are useful for any stream processing application where accuracy is
important, and especially where stream processing includes aggregation and/or joins.
If the stream processing application only performs single record transformation and
filtering, there is no internal state to update, and even if duplicates were introduced in
the process, it is fairly straightforward to filter them out of the output stream. When
the stream processing application aggregates several records into one, it is much more
difficult to check whether a result record is wrong because some input records were
counted more than once; it is impossible to correct the result without reprocessing
the input.
Financial applications are typical examples of complex stream processing applications
where exactly-once capabilities are used to guarantee accurate aggregation. However,
because it is rather trivial to configure any Kafka Streams application to provide
exactly-once guarantees, we’ve seen it enabled in more mundane use cases, including,
for instance, chatbots.
What Problems Do Transactions Solve?
Consider a simple stream processing application: it reads events from a source topic,
maybe processes them, and writes results to another topic. We want to be sure that
for each message we process, the results are written exactly once. What can possibly
go wrong?
It turns out that quite a few things could go wrong. Let’s look at two scenarios.
Reprocessing caused by application crashes
After consuming a message from the source cluster and processing it, the application
has to do two things: produce the result to the output topic, and commit the offset of
the message that we consumed. Suppose that these two separate actions happen in
this order. What happens if the application crashes after the output was produced but
before the offset of the input was committed?
In Chapter 4, we discussed what happens when a consumer crashes. After a few sec‐
onds, the lack of heartbeat will trigger a rebalance, and the partitions the consumer
was consuming from will be reassigned to a different consumer. That consumer will
begin consuming records from those partitions, starting at the last committed offset.
This means that all the records that were processed by the application between the
last committed offset and the crash will be processed again, and the results will be
written to the output topic again—resulting in duplicates.
Transactions | 187

=== PAGE 217 ===
Reprocessing caused by zombie applications
What happens if our application just consumed a batch of records from Kafka and
then froze or lost connectivity to Kafka before doing anything else with this batch of
records?
Just like in the previous scenario, after several heartbeats are missed, the application
will be assumed dead and its partitions reassigned to another consumer in the con‐
sumer group. That consumer will reread that batch of records, process it, produce the
results to an output topic, and continue on.
Meanwhile, the first instance of the application—the one that froze—may resume its
activity: process the batch of records it recently consumed, and produce the results to
the output topic. It can do all that before it polls Kafka for records or sends a heart‐
beat and discovers that it is supposed to be dead and another instance now owns
those partitions.
A consumer that is dead but doesn’t know it is called a zombie. In this scenario, we
can see that without additional guarantees, zombies can produce data to the output
topic and cause duplicate results.
How Do Transactions Guarantee Exactly-Once?
Take our simple stream processing application. It reads data from one topic, pro‐
cesses it, and writes the result to another topic. Exactly-once processing means that
consuming, processing, and producing are done atomically. Either the offset of the
original message is committed and the result is successfully produced or neither of
these things happen. We need to make sure that partial results—where the offset is
committed but the result isn’t produced, or vice versa—can’t happen.
To support this behavior, Kafka transactions introduce the idea of atomic multiparti‐
tion writes. The idea is that committing offsets and producing results both involve
writing messages to partitions. However, the results are written to an output topic,
and offsets are written to the _consumer_offsets topic. If we can open a transaction,
write both messages, and commit if both were written successfully—or abort to retry
if they were not—we will get the exactly-once semantics that we are after.
Figure 8-1  illustrates a simple stream processing application, performing an atomic
multipartition write to two partitions while also committing offsets for the event it
consumed.
188 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 218 ===
Figure 8-1. Transactional producer with atomic multipartition write
To use transactions and perform atomic multipartition writes, we use a transactional
producer. A transactional producer is simply a Kafka producer that is configured with
a transactional.id and has been initialized using initTransactions(). Unlike
producer.id, which is generated automatically by Kafka brokers, transactional.id
is part of the producer configuration and is expected to persist between restarts. In
fact, the main role of the transactional.id is to identify the same producer across
restarts. Kafka brokers maintain transactional.id to producer.id mapping, so if
initTransactions() is called again with an existing transactional.id, the pro‐
ducer will also be assigned the same producer.id instead of a new random number.
Preventing zombie instances of the application from creating duplicates requires a
mechanism for zombie fencing , or preventing zombie instances of the application
