id=node-BROKERID
Coordinator kafka.consumer:type=consumer-coordinator-metrics,client-id=CLIENTID
Fetch manager metrics
In the consumer client, the overall consumer metric bean is less useful for us because
the metrics of interest are located in the fetch manager beans instead. The overall con‐
sumer bean has metrics regarding the lower-level network operations, but the fetch
manager bean has metrics regarding bytes, request, and record rates. Unlike the pro‐
ducer client, the metrics provided by the consumer are useful to look at but not useful
for setting up alerts on.
For the fetch manager, the one attribute you may want to set up monitoring and
alerts for is fetch-latency-avg. As with the equivalent request-latency-avg in the
producer client, this metric tells us how long fetch requests to the brokers take. The
problem with alerting on this metric is that the latency is governed by the consumer
configurations fetch.min.bytes and fetch.max.wait.ms. A slow topic will have
Client Monitoring | 373

=== PAGE 403 ===
erratic latencies, as sometimes the broker will respond quickly (when there are mes‐
sages available), and sometimes it will not respond for fetch.max.wait.ms (when
there are no messages available). When consuming topics that have more regular, and
abundant, message traffic, this metric may be more useful to look at.
Wait! No Lag?
The best advice for all consumers is that you must monitor the
consumer lag. So why do we not recommend monitoring the
records-lag-max attribute on the fetch manager bean? This metric
shows the current lag (the difference between the consumer’s offset
and the broker’s log-end offset) for the partition that is the most
behind.
The problem with this is twofold: it only shows the lag for one par‐
tition, and it relies on proper functioning of the consumer. If you
have no other option, use this attribute for lag and set up alerting
for it. But the best practice is to use external lag monitoring, as will
be described in “Lag Monitoring” on page 377.
To know how much message traffic your consumer client is handling, you should
capture the bytes-consumed-rate or the records-consumed-rate, or preferably
both. These metrics describe the message traffic consumed by this client instance in
bytes per second and messages per second, respectively. Some users set minimum
thresholds on these metrics for alerting so that they are notified if the consumer is
not doing enough work. Y ou should be careful when doing this, however. Kafka is
intended to decouple the consumer and producer clients, allowing them to operate
independently. The rate at which the consumer is able to consume messages is often
dependent on whether or not the producer is working correctly, so monitoring these
metrics on the consumer makes assumptions about the state of the producer. This
can lead to false alerts on the consumer clients.
It is also good to understand the relationship among bytes, messages, and requests,
and the fetch manager provides metrics to help with this. The fetch-rate measure‐
ment tells us the number of fetch requests per second that the consumer is perform‐
ing. The fetch-size-avg metric gives the average size of those fetch requests in
bytes. Finally, the records-per-request-avg metric gives us the average number of
messages in each fetch request. Note that the consumer does not provide an equiva‐
lent to the producer record-size-avg metric to let us know what the average size of
a message is. If this is important, you will need to infer it from the other metrics avail‐
able or capture it in your application after receiving messages from the consumer cli‐
ent library.
374 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 404 ===
Per-broker and per-topic metrics
The metrics that are provided by the consumer client for each of the broker connec‐
tions and each of the topics being consumed, as with the producer client, are useful
for debugging issues with consumption, but will probably not be measurements that
you review daily. As with the fetch manager, the request-latency-avg attribute pro‐
vided by the per-broker metrics bean has limited usefulness, depending on the
message traffic in the topics you are consuming. The incoming-byte-rate and
request-rate metrics break down the consumed message metrics provided by the
fetch manager into per-broker bytes per second and requests per second measure‐
ments, respectively. These can be used to help isolate problems that the consumer is
having with the connection to a specific broker.
Per-topic metrics provided by the consumer client are useful if more than one topic is
being consumed. Otherwise, these metrics will be the same as the fetch manager’s
metrics and redundant to collect. On the other end of the spectrum, if the client is
consuming many topics (Kafka MirrorMaker, for example) these metrics will be diffi‐
cult to review. If you plan on collecting them, the most important metrics to gather
are the bytes-consumed-rate, the records-consumed-rate, and the fetch-size-
avg. The bytes-consumed-rate shows the absolute size in bytes consumed per sec‐
ond for the specific topic, while the records-consumed-rate shows the same
information in terms of the number of messages. The fetch-size-avg provides the
average size of each fetch request for the topic in bytes.
Consumer coordinator metrics
As described in Chapter 4, consumer clients generally work together as part of a con‐
sumer group. This group has coordination activities, such as group members joining,
and heartbeat messages to the brokers to maintain group membership. The consumer
coordinator is the part of the consumer client that is responsible for handling this
work, and it maintains its own set of metrics. As with all metrics, there are many
numbers provided but only a few key ones that you should monitor regularly.
The biggest problem that consumers can run into due to coordinator activities is a
pause in consumption while the consumer group synchronizes. This is when the con‐
sumer instances in a group negotiate which partitions will be consumed by which
individual client instances. Depending on the number of partitions that are being
consumed, this can take some time. The coordinator provides the metric attribute
sync-time-avg, which is the average amount of time, in milliseconds, that the sync
activity takes. It is also useful to capture the sync-rate attribute, which is the number
of group syncs that happen every second. For a stable consumer group, this number
should be zero most of the time.
The consumer needs to commit offsets to checkpoint its progress in consuming mes‐
sages, either automatically on a regular interval or by manual checkpoints triggered
Client Monitoring | 375

=== PAGE 405 ===
in the application code. These commits are essentially just produce requests (though
they have their own request type), in that the offset commit is a message produced to
a special topic. The consumer coordinator provides the commit-latency-avg
attribute, which measures the average amount of time that offset commits take. Y ou
should monitor this value just as you would the request latency in the producer. It
should be possible to establish a baseline expected value for this metric, and set rea‐
sonable thresholds for alerting above that value.
One final coordinator metric that can be useful to collect is assigned-partitions.
This is a count of the number of partitions that the consumer client (as a single
instance in the consumer group) has been assigned to consume. This is helpful
because, when compared to this metric from other consumer clients in the group, it is
possible to see the balance of load across the entire consumer group. We can use this
to identify imbalances that might be caused by problems in the algorithm used by the
consumer coordinator for distributing partitions to group members.
Quotas
Apache Kafka has the ability to throttle client requests in order to prevent one client
from overwhelming the entire cluster. This is configurable for both producer and
consumer clients and is expressed in terms of the permitted amount of traffic from an
individual client ID to an individual broker in bytes per second. There is a broker
configuration, which sets a default value for all clients, as well as per-client overrides
that can be dynamically set. When the broker calculates that a client has exceeded its
quota, it slows the client down by holding the response back to the client for enough
time to keep the client under the quota.
The Kafka broker does not use error codes in the response to indicate that the client
is being throttled. This means that it is not obvious to the application that throttling
is happening without monitoring the metrics that are provided to show the amount
of time that the client is being throttled. The metrics that must be monitored are
shown in Table 13-21.
Table 13-21. Metrics to monitor
Client Bean name
Consumer bean kafka.consumer:type=consumer-fetch-manager-metrics,client-id=CLIENTID,
attribute fetch-throttle-time-avg
Producer bean kafka.producer:type=producer-metrics,client-id=CLIENTID, attribute produce-
throttle-time-avg
Quotas are not enabled by default on the Kafka brokers, but it is safe to monitor these
metrics irrespective of whether or not you are currently using quotas. Monitoring
376 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 406 ===
them is a good practice as they may be enabled at some point in the future, and it’s
easier to start with monitoring them as opposed to adding metrics later.
Lag Monitoring
For Kafka consumers, the most important thing to monitor is the consumer lag.
Measured in number of messages, this is the difference between the last message pro‐
duced in a specific partition and the last message processed by the consumer. While
this topic would normally be covered in the previous section on consumer client
monitoring, it is one of the cases where external monitoring far surpasses what is
available from the client itself. As mentioned previously, there is a lag metric in the
consumer client, but using it is problematic. It only represents a single partition, the
one that has the most lag, so it does not accurately show how far behind the con‐
sumer is. In addition, it requires proper operation of the consumer, because the met‐
ric is calculated by the consumer on each fetch request. If the consumer is broken or
offline, the metric is either inaccurate or not available.
The preferred method of consumer lag monitoring is to have an external process that
can watch both the state of the partition on the broker, tracking the offset of the most
recently produced message, and the state of the consumer, tracking the last offset the
consumer group has committed for the partition. This provides an objective view that
can be updated regardless of the status of the consumer itself. This checking must be
performed for every partition that the consumer group consumes. For a large con‐
sumer, like MirrorMaker, this may mean tens of thousands of partitions.
Chapter 12  provided information on using the command-line utilities to get con‐
sumer group information, including committed offsets and lag. Monitoring lag like
this, however, presents its own problems. First, you must understand for each parti‐
tion what is a reasonable amount of lag. A topic that receives 100 messages an hour
will need a different threshold than a topic that receives 100,000 messages per second.
Then, you must be able to consume all of the lag metrics into a monitoring system
and set alerts on them. If you have a consumer group that consumes 100,000 parti‐
tions over 1,500 topics, you may find this to be a daunting task.
One way to monitor consumer groups reduce this complexity is to use Burrow. This
is an open source application, originally developed by LinkedIn, that provides con‐
sumer status monitoring by gathering lag information for all consumer groups in a
cluster and calculating a single status for each group saying whether the consumer
group is working properly, falling behind, or is stalled or stopped entirely. It does this
without requiring thresholds by monitoring the progress that the consumer group is
making on processing messages, though you can also get the message lag as an abso‐
lute number. There is an in-depth discussion of the reasoning and methodology
behind how Burrow works on the LinkedIn Engineering blog. Deploying Burrow can
be an easy way to provide monitoring for all consumers in a cluster, as well as in
Lag Monitoring | 377

=== PAGE 407 ===
multiple clusters, and it can be easily integrated with your existing monitoring and
alerting system.
If there is no other option, the records-lag-max metric from the consumer client
will provide at least a partial view of the consumer status. It is strongly suggested,
however, that you utilize an external monitoring system like Burrow.
End-to-End Monitoring
Another type of external monitoring that is recommended to determine if your Kafka
clusters are working properly is an end-to-end monitoring system that provides a cli‐
ent point of view on the health of the Kafka cluster. Consumer and producer clients
have metrics that can indicate that there might be a problem with the Kafka cluster,
but this can be a guessing game as to whether increased latency is due to a problem
with the client, the network, or Kafka itself. In addition, it means that if you are
responsible for running the Kafka cluster, and not the clients, you would now have to
monitor all of the clients as well. What you really need to know is:
• Can I produce messages to the Kafka cluster?
• Can I consume messages from the Kafka cluster?
In an ideal world, you would be able to monitor this for every topic individually.
However, in most situations it is not reasonable to inject synthetic traffic into every
topic in order to do this. We can, however, at least provide those answers for every
broker in the cluster, and that is what Xinfra Monitor (formerly known as Kafka
