always an imbalance in the load of the Kafka cluster. While Kafka attempts to keep
the data within the cluster evenly spread across all brokers, this does not mean that
client access to that data is evenly distributed. It also does not detect issues such as
hot partitions. It is highly recommended that you utilize an external tool for keeping
Kafka Broker Metrics | 347

=== PAGE 377 ===
the cluster balanced at all times. One such tool is Cruise Control, an application that
continually monitors the cluster and rebalances partitions within it. It also provides a
number of other administrative functions, such as adding and removing brokers.
Preferred Replica Elections
The first step before trying to diagnose a problem further is to
ensure that you have run a preferred replica election (see Chap‐
ter 12) recently. Kafka brokers do not automatically take partition
leadership back (unless auto leader rebalance is enabled) after they
have released leadership (e.g., when the broker has failed or been
shut down). This means that it’s very easy for leader replicas to
become unbalanced in a cluster. The preferred replica election is
safe and easy to run, so it’s a good idea to do that first and see if the
problem goes away.
Overloaded clusters are another problem that is easy to detect. If the cluster is bal‐
anced, and many of the brokers are showing elevated latency for requests or a low
request handler pool idle ratio, you are reaching the limits of your brokers to serve
traffic for this cluster. Y ou may find upon deeper inspection that you have a client
that has changed its request pattern and is now causing problems. Even when this
happens, however, there may be little you can do about changing the client. The solu‐
tions available to you are either to reduce the load to the cluster or increase the num‐
ber of brokers.
Problems with the controller in the Kafka cluster are much more difficult to diagnose
and often fall into the category of bugs in Kafka itself. These issues manifest as broker
metadata being out of sync, offline replicas when the brokers appear to be fine, and
topic control actions like creation not happening properly. If you’re scratching your
head over a problem in the cluster and saying “That’s really weird, ” there is a very
good chance that it is because the controller did something unpredictable and bad.
There are not a lot of ways to monitor the controller, but monitoring the active con‐
troller count as well as the controller queue size will give you a high-level indicator if
there is a problem.
The Art of Under-Replicated Partitions
One of the most popular metrics to use when monitoring Kafka is under-replicated
partitions. This measurement, provided on each broker in a cluster, gives a count of
the number of partitions for which the broker is the leader replica, where the follower
replicas are not caught up. This single measurement provides insight into a number
of problems with the Kafka cluster, from a broker being down to resource exhaustion.
With the wide variety of problems that this metric can indicate, it is worthy of an
in-depth look at how to respond to a value other than zero. Many of the metrics used
348 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 378 ===
in diagnosing these types of problems will be described later in this chapter. See
Table 13-3 for more details on under-replicated partitions.
Table 13-3. Metrics and their corresponding under-replicated partitions
Metric name Under-replicated partitions
JMX MBean kafka.server:type=ReplicaManager,name=UnderReplicatedPartitions
Value range Integer, zero or greater
The URP Alerting Trap
In the previous edition of this book, as well as in many conference
talks, the authors have spoken at length about the fact that the
under-replicated partitions (URP) metric should be your primary
alerting metric because of how many problems it describes. This
approach has a significant number of problems, not the least of
which is that the URP metric can frequently be nonzero for benign
reasons. This means that as someone operating a Kafka cluster, you
will receive false alerts, which lead to the alert being ignored. It also
requires a significant amount of knowledge to be able to under‐
stand what the metric is telling you. For this reason, we no longer
recommend the use of URP for alerting. Instead, you should
depend on SLO-based alerting to detect unknown problems.
A steady (unchanging) number of under-replicated partitions reported by many of
the brokers in a cluster normally indicates that one of the brokers in the cluster is off‐
line. The count of under-replicated partitions across the entire cluster will equal the
number of partitions that are assigned to that broker, and the broker that is down will
not report a metric. In this case, you will need to investigate what has happened to
that broker and resolve that situation. This is often a hardware failure, but it could
also be an OS or Java issue that has caused the problem.
If the number of under-replicated partitions is fluctuating, or if the number is steady
but there are no brokers offline, this typically indicates a performance issue in the
cluster. These types of problems are much harder to diagnose due to their variety, but
there are several steps you can work through to narrow it down to the most likely
causes. The first step is to try and determine if the problem relates to a single broker
or to the entire cluster. This can sometimes be a difficult question to answer. If the
under-replicated partitions are on a single broker, as in the following example, then
that broker is typically the problem. The error shows that other brokers are having a
problem replicating messages from that one.
Kafka Broker Metrics | 349

=== PAGE 379 ===
If several brokers have under-replicated partitions, it could be a cluster problem, but
it might still be a single broker. In that case, it would be because a single broker is
having problems replicating messages from everywhere, and you’ll have to figure out
which broker it is. One way to do this is to get a list of under-replicated partitions for
the cluster and see if there is a specific broker that is common to all of the partitions
that are under-replicated. Using the kafka-topics.sh tool (discussed in detail in
Chapter 12), you can get a list of under-replicated partitions to look for a common
thread.
For example, list under-replicated partitions in a cluster:
# kafka-topics.sh --bootstrap-server kafka1.example.com:9092/kafka-cluster
--describe --under-replicated
    Topic: topicOne   Partition: 5    Leader: 1    Replicas: 1,2 Isr: 1
    Topic: topicOne   Partition: 6    Leader: 3    Replicas: 2,3 Isr: 3
    Topic: topicTwo   Partition: 3    Leader: 4    Replicas: 2,4 Isr: 4
    Topic: topicTwo   Partition: 7    Leader: 5    Replicas: 5,2 Isr: 5
    Topic: topicSix   Partition: 1    Leader: 3    Replicas: 2,3 Isr: 3
    Topic: topicSix   Partition: 2    Leader: 1    Replicas: 1,2 Isr: 1
    Topic: topicSix   Partition: 5    Leader: 6    Replicas: 2,6 Isr: 6
    Topic: topicSix   Partition: 7    Leader: 7    Replicas: 7,2 Isr: 7
    Topic: topicNine  Partition: 1    Leader: 1    Replicas: 1,2 Isr: 1
    Topic: topicNine  Partition: 3    Leader: 3    Replicas: 2,3 Isr: 3
    Topic: topicNine  Partition: 4    Leader: 3    Replicas: 3,2 Isr: 3
    Topic: topicNine  Partition: 7    Leader: 3    Replicas: 2,3 Isr: 3
    Topic: topicNine  Partition: 0    Leader: 3    Replicas: 2,3 Isr: 3
    Topic: topicNine  Partition: 5    Leader: 6    Replicas: 6,2 Isr: 6
#
In this example, the common broker is number 2. This indicates that this broker is
having a problem with message replication and will lead us to focus our investigation
on that one broker. If there is no common broker, there is likely a cluster-wide
problem.
Cluster-level problems
Cluster problems usually fall into one of two categories:
• Unbalanced load
• Resource exhaustion
The first problem, unbalanced partitions or leadership, is the easiest to find even
though fixing it can be an involved process. In order to diagnose this problem, you
will need several metrics from the brokers in the cluster:
• Partition count
• Leader partition count
350 | Chapter 13: Monitoring Kafka

=== PAGE 380 ===
• All topics messages in rate
• All topics bytes in rate
• All topics bytes out rate
Examine these metrics. In a perfectly balanced cluster, the numbers will be even
across all brokers in the cluster, as in Table 13-4.
Table 13-4. Utilization metrics
Broker Partitions Leaders Messages in Bytes in Bytes out
1 100 50 13130 msg/s 3.56 MBps 9.45 MBps
2 101 49 12842 msg/s 3.66 MBps 9.25 MBps
3 100 50 13086 msg/s 3.23 MBps 9.82 MBps
This indicates that all the brokers are taking approximately the same amount of traf‐
fic. Assuming you have already run a preferred replica election, a large deviation
indicates that the traffic is not balanced within the cluster.  To resolve this, you will
need to move partitions from the heavily loaded brokers to the less heavily loaded
brokers. This is done using the kafka-reassign-partitions.sh tool described in
Chapter 12.
Helpers for Balancing Clusters
The Kafka broker itself does not provide for automatic reassign‐
ment of partitions in a cluster. This means that balancing traffic
within a Kafka cluster can be a mind-numbing process of manually
reviewing long lists of metrics and trying to come up with a replica
assignment that works. To help with this, some organizations have
developed automated tools for performing this task. One example
is the kafka-assigner tool that LinkedIn has released in the open
source kafka-tools repository on GitHub. Some enterprise offerings
for Kafka support also provide this feature.
Another common cluster performance issue is exceeding the capacity of the brokers
to serve requests. There are many possible bottlenecks that could slow things down:
CPU, disk IO, and network throughput are a few of the most common. Disk utiliza‐
tion is not one of them, as the brokers will operate properly right up until the disk is
filled, and then this disk will fail abruptly. In order to diagnose a capacity problem,
there are many metrics you can track at the OS level, including:
• CPU utilization
• Inbound network throughput
• Outbound network throughput
Kafka Broker Metrics | 351

=== PAGE 381 ===
• Disk average wait time
• Disk percent utilization
Exhausting any of these resources will typically show up as the same problem: under-
replicated partitions. It’s critical to remember that the broker replication process
operates in exactly the same way that other Kafka clients do. If your cluster is having
problems with replication, then your customers are having problems with producing
and consuming messages as well. It makes sense to develop a baseline for these met‐
rics when your cluster is operating correctly and then set thresholds that indicate a
developing problem long before you run out of capacity. Y ou will also want to review
the trend for these metrics as the traffic to your cluster increases over time. As far as
Kafka broker metrics are concerned, the All Topics Bytes In Rate is a good guide‐
line to show cluster usage.
Host-level problems
If the performance problem with Kafka is not present in the entire cluster and can be 
isolated to one or two brokers, it’s time to examine that server and see what makes it
different from the rest of the cluster. These types of problems fall into several general
categories:
• Hardware failures
• Networking
• Conflicts with another process
• Local configuration differences
Typical Servers and Problems
A server and its OS is a complex machine with thousands of com‐
ponents, any of which could have problems and cause either a
complete failure or just a performance degradation. It’s impossible
for us to cover everything that can fail in this book—numerous vol‐
umes have been written, and will continue to be, on this subject.
But we can discuss some of the most common problems that are
seen. This section will focus on issues with a typical server running
a Linux OS.
Hardware failures are sometimes obvious, like when the server just stops working,
but it’s the less obvious problems that cause performance issues. These are usually
soft failures that allow the system to keep running but degrade operation. This could
be a bad bit of memory, where the system has detected the problem and bypassed that
