or table is joined with an arbitrary field from another stream or table. Y ou can learn
more about how it works in “Crossing the Streams”, a talk from Kafka Summit 2020,
or the more in-depth blog post.
Streaming Join
Sometimes we want to join two real event streams rather than a stream with a table.
What makes a stream “real”? If you recall the discussion at the beginning of the chap‐
ter, streams are unbounded. When we use a stream to represent a table, we can ignore
most of the history in the stream because we only care about the current state in the
table. But when we join two streams, we are joining the entire history, trying to match
events in one stream with events in the other stream that have the same key and hap‐
pened in the same time windows. This is why a streaming join is also called a win‐
dowed join.
For example, let’s say that we have one stream with search queries that people entered
into our website and another stream with clicks, which include clicks on search
results. We want to match search queries with the results they clicked on so that we
will know which result is most popular for which query. Obviously, we want to match
results based on the search term but only match them within a certain time window.
We assume the result is clicked seconds after the query was entered into our search
engine. So we keep a small, few-seconds-long window on each stream and match the
results from each window. See Figure 14-8.
398 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 428 ===
Figure 14-8. Joining two streams of events; these joins always involve a moving time
window
Kafka Streams supports equi-joins, where streams, queries, and clicks are parti‐
tioned on the same keys, which are also the join keys. This way, all the click events
from user_id:42 end up in partition 5 of the clicks topic, and all the search events
for user_id:42 end up in partition 5 of the search topic. Kafka Streams then makes
sure that partition 5 of both topics is assigned to the same task. So this task sees all
the relevant events for user_id:42. It maintains the join window for both topics in its
embedded RocksDB state store, and this is how it can perform the join.
Out-of-Sequence Events
Handling events that arrive at the stream at the wrong time is a challenge not just in
stream processing but also in traditional ETL systems. Out-of-sequence events hap‐
pen quite frequently and expectedly in IoT scenarios ( Figure 14-9 ). For example, a
mobile device loses WiFi signal for a few hours and sends a few hours’ worth of
events when it reconnects. This also happens when monitoring network equipment
(a faulty switch doesn’t send diagnostics signals until it is repaired) or manufacturing
(network connectivity in plants is notoriously unreliable, especially in developing
countries).
Figure 14-9. Out-of-sequence events
Our streams applications need to be able to handle those scenarios. This typically
means the application has to do the following:
Stream Processing Design Patterns | 399

=== PAGE 429 ===
• Recognize that an event is out of sequence—this requires that the application
examines the event time and discovers that it is older than the current time.
• Define a time period during which it will attempt to reconcile out-of-sequence
events. Perhaps a three-hour delay should be reconciled, and events over three
weeks old can be thrown away.
• Have an in-band capability to reconcile this event. This is the main difference
between streaming apps and batch jobs. If we have a daily batch job and a few
events arrived after the job completed, we can usually just rerun yesterday’s job
and update the events. With stream processing, there is no “rerun yesterday’s
job”—the same continuous process needs to handle both old and new events at
any given moment.
• Be able to update results. If the results of the stream processing are written into a
database, a put or update is enough to update the results. If the stream app sends
results by email, updates may be trickier.
Several stream processing frameworks, including Google’s Dataflow and Kafka
Streams, have built-in support for the notion of event time independent of the pro‐
cessing time, and the ability to handle events with event times that are older or newer
than the current processing time. This is typically done by maintaining multiple
aggregation windows available for update in the local state and giving developers the
ability to configure how long to keep those window aggregates available for updates.
Of course, the longer the aggregation windows are kept available for updates, the
more memory is required to maintain the local state.
The Kafka Streams API always writes aggregation results to result topics.  Those are
usually compacted topics, which means that only the latest value for each key is pre‐
served. In case the results of an aggregation window need to be updated as a result of
a late event, Kafka Streams will simply write a new result for this aggregation window,
which will effectively replace the previous result.
Reprocessing
The last important pattern is reprocessing events. There are two variants of this
pattern:
• We have an improved version of our stream processing application. We want to
run the new version of the application on the same event stream as the old, pro‐
duce a new stream of results that does not replace the first version, compare the
results between the two versions, and at some point move clients to use the new
results instead of the existing ones.
400 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 430 ===
• The existing stream processing app is buggy. We fix the bug, and we want to
reprocess the event stream and recalculate our results
The first use case is made simple by the fact that Apache Kafka stores the event
streams in their entirety for long periods of time in a scalable data store. This means
that having two versions of a stream processing application writing two result streams
only requires the following:
• Spinning up the new version of the application as a new consumer group
• Configuring the new version to start processing from the first offset of the input
topics (so it will get its own copy of all events in the input streams)
• Letting the new application continue processing, and switching the client appli‐
cations to the new result stream when the new version of the processing job has
caught up
The second use case is more challenging—it requires “resetting” an existing app to
start processing back at the beginning of the input streams, resetting the local state
(so we won’t mix results from the two versions of the app), and possibly cleaning the
previous output stream. While Kafka Streams has a tool for resetting the state for a
stream processing app, our recommendation is to try to use the first method when‐
ever sufficient capacity exists to run two copies of the app and generate two result
streams. The first method is much safer—it allows switching back and forth between
multiple versions and comparing results between versions, and doesn’t risk losing
critical data or introducing errors during the cleanup process.
Interactive Queries
As discussed previously, stream processing applications have state, and this state can
be distributed among many instances of the application. Most of the time the users of
stream processing applications get the results of the processing by reading them from
an output topic. In some cases, however, it is desirable to take a shortcut and read the
results from the state store itself. This is common when the result is a table (e.g., the
top 10 best-selling books) and the stream of results is really a stream of updates to
this table—it is much faster and easier to just read the table directly from the stream
processing application state.
Kafka Streams includes flexible APIs for querying the state of a stream processing
application.
Stream Processing Design Patterns | 401

=== PAGE 431 ===
Kafka Streams by Example
To demonstrate how these patterns are implemented in practice, we’ll show a few
examples using the Apache Kafka Streams API. We are using this specific API
because it is relatively simple to use and it ships with Apache Kafka, which we already
have access to. It is important to remember that the patterns can be implemented in
any stream processing framework and library—the patterns are universal, but the
examples are specific.
Apache Kafka has two stream APIs—a low-level Processor API and a high-level
Streams DSL. We will use the Kafka Streams DSL in our examples. The DSL allows us
to define the stream processing application by defining a chain of transformations to
events in the streams. Transformations can be as simple as a filter or as complex as a
stream-to-stream join. The lower-level API allows us to create our own transforma‐
tions. To learn more about the low-level Processor API, the developer guide  has
detailed information, and the presentation “Beyond the DSL ” is a great introduction.
An application that uses the DSL API always starts with using the StreamsBuilder to
create a processing topology—a directed acyclic graph (DAG) of transformations that
are applied to the events in the streams. Then we create a KafkaStreams execution
object from the topology. Starting the KafkaStreams object will start multiple threads,
each applying the processing topology to events in the stream. The processing will
conclude when we close the KafkaStreams object.
We’ll look at a few examples that use Kafka Streams to implement some of the design
patterns we just discussed. A simple word count example will be used to demonstrate
the map/filter pattern and simple aggregates. Then we’ll move to an example where
we calculate different statistics on stock market trades, which will allow us to demon‐
strate window aggregations. Finally, we’ll use ClickStream enrichment as an example
to demonstrate streaming joins.
Word Count
Let’s walk through an abbreviated word count example for Kafka Streams. Y ou can
find the full example on GitHub.
The first thing you do when creating a stream processing app is configure Kafka
Streams. Kafka Streams has a large number of possible configurations, which we
won’t discuss here, but you can find them in the documentation. In addition, you can
configure the producer and consumer embedded in Kafka Streams by adding any
producer or consumer config to the Properties object:
402 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 432 ===
public class WordCountExample {
    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception{
        Properties props = new Properties();
        props.put(StreamsConfig.APPLICATION_ID_CONFIG,
          "wordcount"); 
        props.put(StreamsConfig.BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS_CONFIG,
          "localhost:9092"); 
        props.put(StreamsConfig.DEFAULT_KEY_SERDE_CLASS_CONFIG,
          Serdes.String().getClass().getName()); 
        props.put(StreamsConfig.DEFAULT_VALUE_SERDE_CLASS_CONFIG,
          Serdes.String().getClass().getName());
Every Kafka Streams application must have an application ID. It is used to coor‐
dinate the instances of the application and also when naming the internal local
stores and the topics related to them. This name must be unique for each Kafka
Streams application working with the same Kafka cluster.
The Kafka Streams application always reads data from Kafka topics and writes its
output to Kafka topics. As we’ll discuss later, Kafka Streams applications also use
Kafka for coordination. So we had better tell our app where to find Kafka.
When reading and writing data, our app will need to serialize and deserialize, so
we provide default Serde classes. If needed, we can override these defaults later
when building the streams topology.
Now that we have the configuration, let’s build our streams topology:
StreamsBuilder builder = new StreamsBuilder(); 
KStream<String, String> source =
  builder.stream("wordcount-input");
final Pattern pattern = Pattern.compile("\\W+");
KStream<String, String> counts  = source.flatMapValues(value->
  Arrays.asList(pattern.split(value.toLowerCase()))) 
        .map((key, value) -> new KeyValue<String,
           String>(value, value))
        .filter((key, value) -> (!value.equals("the"))) 
        .groupByKey() 
        .count().mapValues(value->
           Long.toString(value)).toStream();
counts.to("wordcount-output"); 
We create a StreamsBuilder object and start defining a stream by pointing at the
topic we’ll use as our input.
Kafka Streams by Example | 403

=== PAGE 433 ===
Each event we read from the source topic is a line of words; we split it up using a
regular expression into a series of individual words. Then we take each word
(currently a value of the event record) and put it in the event record key so it can
