In recent years, a more common installation for Kafka is within cloud computing
environments, such as Microsoft Azure, Amazon’s AWS, or Google Cloud Platform.
There are many options to have Kafka set up in the cloud and managed for you via
vendors like Confluent or even through Azure’s own Kafka on HDInsight, but the fol‐
lowing is some simple advice if you plan to manage your own Kafka clusters man‐
ually. In most cloud environments, you have a selection of many compute instances,
each with a different combination of CPU, memory, IOPS, and disk. The various per‐
formance characteristics of Kafka must be prioritized in order to select the correct
instance configuration to use.
Kafka in the Cloud | 35

=== PAGE 65 ===
Microsoft Azure
In Azure, you can manage the disks separately from the virtual machine (VM), so
deciding your storage needs does not need to be related to the VM type selected.  That
being said, a good place to start on decisions is with the amount of data retention
required, followed by the performance needed from the producers. If very low
latency is necessary, I/O optimized instances utilizing premium SSD storage might be
required. Otherwise, managed storage options (such as the Azure Managed Disks or
the Azure Blob Storage) might be sufficient.
In real terms, experience in Azure shows that Standard D16s v3 instance types are a
good choice for smaller clusters and are performant enough for most use cases. To
match high performant hardware and CPU needs, D64s v4 instances have good per‐
formance that can scale for larger clusters. It is recommended to build out your clus‐
ter in an Azure availability set and balance partitions across Azure compute fault
domains to ensure availability. Once you have a VM picked out, deciding on storage
types can come next. It is highly recommended to use Azure Managed Disks rather
than ephemeral disks. If a VM is moved, you run the risk of losing all the data on
your Kafka broker. HDD Managed Disks are relatively inexpensive but do not have
clearly defined SLAs from Microsoft on availability. Premium SSDs or Ultra SSD con‐
figurations are much more expensive but are much quicker and are well supported
with 99.99% SLAs from Microsoft. Alternatively, using Microsoft Blob Storage is an
option if you are not as latency sensitive.
Amazon Web Services
In AWS, if very low latency is necessary, I/O optimized instances that have local SSD
storage might be required. Otherwise, ephemeral storage (such as the Amazon Elastic
Block Store) might be sufficient.
A common choice in AWS is either the m4 or r3 instance types. The m4 will allow for
greater retention periods, but the throughput to the disk will be less because it is on
elastic block storage. The r3 instance will have much better throughput with local
SSD drives, but those drives will limit the amount of data that can be retained. For the
best of both worlds, it may be necessary to move up to either the i2 or d2 instance
types, but they are significantly more expensive.
Configuring Kafka Clusters
A single Kafka broker works well for local development work, or for a proof-of-
concept system, but there are significant benefits to having multiple brokers config‐
ured as a cluster, as shown in Figure 2-2. The biggest benefit is the ability to scale the
load across multiple servers. A close second is using replication to guard against data
loss due to single system failures. Replication will also allow for performing
36 | Chapter 2: Installing Kafka

=== PAGE 66 ===
maintenance work on Kafka or the underlying systems while still maintaining availa‐
bility for clients. This section focuses on the steps to configure a Kafka basic cluster.
Chapter 7 contains more information on replication of data and durability.
Figure 2-2. A simple Kafka cluster
How Many Brokers?
The appropriate size for a Kafka cluster is determined by several factors. Typically, the
size of your cluster will be bound on the following key areas:
• Disk capacity
• Replica capacity per broker
• CPU capacity
• Network capacity
The first factor to consider is how much disk capacity is required for retaining mes‐
sages and how much storage is available on a single broker. If the cluster is required
to retain 10 TB of data and a single broker can store 2 TB, then the minimum cluster
size is 5 brokers. In addition, increasing the replication factor will increase the storage
requirements by at least 100%, depending on the replication factor setting chosen (see
Chapter 7). Replicas in this case refer to the number of different brokers a single par‐
tition is copied to. This means that this same cluster, configured with a replication of
2, now needs to contain at least 10 brokers.
The other factor to consider is the capacity of the cluster to handle requests. This can
exhibit through the other three bottlenecks mentioned earlier.
Configuring Kafka Clusters | 37

=== PAGE 67 ===
If you have a 10-broker Kafka cluster but have over 1 million replicas (i.e., 500,000
partitions with a replication factor of 2) in your cluster, each broker is taking on
approximately 100,000 replicas in an evenly balanced scenario. This can lead to bot‐
tlenecks in the produce, consume, and controller queues. In the past, official recom‐
mendations have been to have no more than 4,000 partition replicas per broker and
no more than 200,000 partition replicas per cluster. However, advances in cluster effi‐
ciency have allowed Kafka to scale much larger. Currently, in a well-configured envi‐
ronment, it is recommended to not have more than 14,000 partition replicas per
broker and 1 million replicas per cluster.
As previously mentioned in this chapter, CPU usually is not a major bottleneck for
most use cases, but it can be if there is an excessive amount of client connections and
requests on a broker. Keeping an eye on overall CPU usage based on how many
unique clients and consumer groups there are, and expanding to meet those needs,
can help to ensure better overall performance in large clusters. Speaking to network
capacity, it is important to keep in mind the capacity of the network interfaces and
whether they can handle the client traffic if there are multiple consumers of the data
or if the traffic is not consistent over the retention period of the data (e.g., bursts of
traffic during peak times). If the network interface on a single broker is used to 80%
capacity at peak, and there are two consumers of that data, the consumers will not be
able to keep up with peak traffic unless there are two brokers. If replication is being
used in the cluster, this is an additional consumer of the data that must be taken into
account. Y ou may also want to scale out to more brokers in a cluster in order to han‐
dle performance concerns caused by lesser disk throughput or system memory
available.
Broker Configuration
There are only two requirements in the broker configuration to allow multiple Kafka
brokers to join a single cluster. The first is that all brokers must have the same config‐
uration for the zookeeper.connect parameter. This specifies the ZooKeeper ensem‐
ble and path where the cluster stores metadata. The second requirement is that all
brokers in the cluster must have a unique value for the broker.id parameter. If two
brokers attempt to join the same cluster with the same broker.id, the second broker
will log an error and fail to start. There are other configuration parameters used when
running a cluster—specifically, parameters that control replication, which are covered
in later chapters.
OS Tuning
While most Linux distributions have an out-of-the-box configuration for the kernel-
tuning parameters that will work fairly well for most applications, there are a few
changes that can be made for a Kafka broker that will improve performance. These
38 | Chapter 2: Installing Kafka

=== PAGE 68 ===
primarily revolve around the virtual memory and networking subsystems, as well as
specific concerns for the disk mount point used for storing log segments. These
parameters are typically configured in the /etc/sysctl.conf file, but you should refer to
your Linux distribution documentation for specific details regarding how to adjust
the kernel configuration.
Virtual memory
In general, the Linux virtual memory system will automatically adjust itself for the
system workload. We can make some adjustments to how swap space is handled, as
well as to dirty memory pages, to tune these for Kafka’s workload.
As with most applications, specifically ones where throughput is a concern, it is best
to avoid swapping at (almost) all costs. The cost incurred by having pages of memory
swapped to disk will show up as a noticeable impact on all aspects of performance in
Kafka. In addition, Kafka makes heavy use of the system page cache, and if the VM
system is swapping to disk, there is not enough memory being allocated to page
cache.
One way to avoid swapping is simply not to configure any swap space at all. Having
swap is not a requirement, but it does provide a safety net if something catastrophic
happens on the system. Having swap can prevent the OS from abruptly killing a pro‐
cess due to an out-of-memory condition. For this reason, the recommendation is to
set the vm.swappiness parameter to a very low value, such as 1. The parameter is a
percentage of how likely the VM subsystem is to use swap space rather than dropping
pages from the page cache. It is preferable to reduce the amount of memory available
for the page cache rather than utilize any amount of swap memory.
Why Not Set Swappiness to Zero?
Previously, the recommendation for vm.swappiness was always to
set it to 0. This value used to mean “do not swap unless there is an
out-of-memory condition. ” However, the meaning of this value
changed as of Linux kernel version 3.5-rc1, and that change was
backported into many distributions, including Red Hat Enterprise
Linux kernels as of version 2.6.32-303. This changed the meaning
of the value 0 to “never swap under any circumstances. ” This is why
a value of 1 is now recommended.
There is also a benefit to adjusting how the kernel handles dirty pages that must be
flushed to disk. Kafka relies on disk I/O performance to provide good response times
to producers. This is also the reason that the log segments are usually put on a fast
disk, whether that is an individual disk with a fast response time (e.g., SSD) or a disk
subsystem with significant NVRAM for caching (e.g., RAID). The result is that the
number of dirty pages that are allowed, before the flush background process starts
Configuring Kafka Clusters | 39

=== PAGE 69 ===
writing them to disk, can be reduced. Do this by setting the vm.dirty_back
ground_ratio value lower than the default of 10. The value is a percentage of the total
amount of system memory, and setting this value to 5 is appropriate in many situa‐
tions. This setting should not be set to zero, however, as that would cause the kernel
to continually flush pages, which would then eliminate the ability of the kernel to
buffer disk writes against temporary spikes in the underlying device performance.
The total number of dirty pages allowed before the kernel forces synchronous opera‐
tions to flush them to disk can also be increased by changing the value of
vm.dirty_ratio to above the default of 20 (also a percentage of total system mem‐
ory). There is a wide range of possible values for this setting, but between 60 and 80 is
a reasonable number. This setting does introduce a small amount of risk, both in
regard to the amount of unflushed disk activity as well as the potential for long I/O
pauses if synchronous flushes are forced. If a higher setting for vm.dirty_ratio is
chosen, it is highly recommended that replication be used in the Kafka cluster to
guard against system failures.
When choosing values for these parameters, it is wise to review the number of dirty
pages over time while the Kafka cluster is running under load, whether in production
or simulated. The current number of dirty pages can be determined by checking
the /proc/vmstat file:
# cat /proc/vmstat | egrep "dirty|writeback"
nr_dirty 21845
nr_writeback 0
nr_writeback_temp 0
nr_dirty_threshold 32715981
nr_dirty_background_threshold 2726331
#
Kafka uses file descriptors for log segments and open connections. If a broker has a
lot of partitions, then that broker needs at least (number_of_partitions) ×
(partition_size/segment_size) to track all the log segments in addition to the number
of connections the broker makes. As such, it is recommended to update the
vm.max_map_count to a very large number based on the above calculation. Depending
on the environment, changing this value to 400,000 or 600,000 has generally been
successful. It is also recommended to set vm.overcommit_memory to 0.  Setting the
default value of 0 indicates that the kernel determines the amount of free memory
from an application. If the property is set to a value other than zero, it could lead the
operating system to grab too much memory, depriving memory for Kafka to operate
optimally. This is common for applications with high ingestion rates.
40 | Chapter 2: Installing Kafka

=== PAGE 70 ===
Disk
Outside of selecting the disk device hardware, as well as the configuration of RAID if
