that will never be reused won’t take up a significant part of the
broker memory.
Performance of Transactions
Transactions add moderate overhead to the producer. The request to register transac‐
tional ID occurs once in the producer lifecycle. Additional calls to register partitions
as part of a transaction happen at most one per partition for each transaction, then
each transaction sends a commit request, which causes an extra commit marker to be
written on each partition. The transactional initialization and transaction commit
requests are synchronous, so no data will be sent until they complete successfully, fail,
or time out, which further increases the overhead.
Note that the overhead of transactions on the producer is independent of the number
of messages in a transaction. So a larger number of messages per transaction will both
reduce the relative overhead and reduce the number of synchronous stops, resulting
in higher throughput overall.
On the consumer side, there is some overhead involved in reading commit markers.
The key impact that transactions have on consumer performance is introduced by the
fact that consumers in read_committed mode will not return records that are part of
an open transaction. Long intervals between transaction commits mean that the con‐
sumer will need to wait longer before returning messages, and as a result, end-to-end
latency will increase.
200 | Chapter 8: Exactly-Once Semantics

=== PAGE 230 ===
Note, however, that the consumer does not need to buffer messages that belong to
open transactions. The broker will not return those in response to fetch requests
from the consumer. Since there is no extra work for the consumer when reading
transactions, there is no decrease in throughput either.
Summary
Exactly-once semantics in Kafka is the opposite of chess: it is challenging to under‐
stand but easy to use.
This chapter covered the two key mechanisms that provide exactly-once guarantees
in Kafka: idempotent producer, which avoids duplicates that are caused by the retry
mechanism, and transactions, which form the basis of exactly-once semantics in
Kafka Streams.
Both can be enabled in a single configuration and allow us to use Kafka for applica‐
tions that require fewer duplicates and stronger correctness guarantees.
We discussed in depth specific scenarios and use cases to show the expected behavior,
and even looked at some of the implementation details. Those details are important
when troubleshooting applications or when using transactional APIs directly.
By understanding what Kafka’s exactly-once semantics guarantee in which use case,
we can design applications that will use exactly-once when necessary. Application
behavior should not be surprising, and the information in this chapter will help us
avoid surprises.
Summary | 201

=== PAGE 232 ===
CHAPTER 9
Building Data Pipelines
When people discuss building data pipelines using Apache Kafka, they are usually
referring to a couple of use cases. The first is building a data pipeline where Apache
Kafka is one of the two end points—for example, getting data from Kafka to S3 or
getting data from MongoDB into Kafka. The second use case involves building a
pipeline between two different systems but using Kafka as an intermediary. An exam‐
ple of this is getting data from Twitter to Elasticsearch by sending the data first from
Twitter to Kafka and then from Kafka to Elasticsearch.
When we added Kafka Connect to Apache Kafka in version 0.9, it was after we saw
Kafka used in both use cases at LinkedIn and other large organizations. We noticed
that there were specific challenges in integrating Kafka into data pipelines that every
organization had to solve, and decided to add APIs to Kafka that solve some of those
challenges rather than force every organization to figure them out from scratch.
The main value Kafka provides to data pipelines is its ability to serve as a very large,
reliable buffer between various stages in the pipeline. This effectively decouples pro‐
ducers and consumers of data within the pipeline and allows use of the same data
from the source in multiple target applications and systems, all with different timeli‐
ness and availability requirements. This decoupling, combined with reliability, secu‐
rity, and efficiency, makes Kafka a good fit for most data pipelines.
203

=== PAGE 233 ===
Putting Data Integration in Context
Some organizations think of Kafka as an end point of a pipeline.
They look at questions such as “How do I get data from Kafka to
Elastic?” This is a valid question to ask—especially if there is data
you need in Elastic and it is currently in Kafka—and we will look at
ways to do exactly this. But we are going to start the discussion by
looking at the use of Kafka within a larger context that includes at
least two (and possibly many more) end points that are not Kafka
itself. We encourage anyone faced with a data-integration problem
to consider the bigger picture and not focus only on the immediate
end points. Focusing on short-term integrations is how you end up
with a complex and expensive-to-maintain data integration mess.
In this chapter, we’ll discuss some of the common issues that you need to take into
account when building data pipelines. Those challenges are not specific to Kafka but
are general data integration problems. Nonetheless, we will show why Kafka is a good
fit for data integration use cases and how it addresses many of those challenges. We
will discuss how the Kafka Connect API is different from the normal producer and
consumer clients, and when each client type should be used. Then we’ll jump into
some details of Kafka Connect. While a full discussion of Kafka Connect is outside
the scope of this chapter, we will show examples of basic usage to get you started and
give you pointers on where to learn more. Finally, we’ll discuss other data integration
systems and how they integrate with Kafka.
Considerations When Building Data Pipelines
While we won’t get into all the details on building data pipelines here, we would like
to highlight some of the most important things to take into account when designing
software architectures with the intent of integrating multiple systems.
Timeliness
Some systems expect their data to arrive in large bulks once a day; others expect the
data to arrive a few milliseconds after it is generated. Most data pipelines fit some‐
where in between these two extremes. Good data integration systems can support dif‐
ferent timeliness requirements for different pipelines and also make the migration
between different timetables easier as business requirements change. Kafka, being a
streaming data platform with scalable and reliable storage, can be used to support
anything from near-real-time pipelines to daily batches. Producers can write to Kafka
as frequently and infrequently as needed, and consumers can also read and deliver
the latest events as they arrive. Or consumers can work in batches: run every hour,
connect to Kafka, and read the events that accumulated during the previous hour.
204 | Chapter 9: Building Data Pipelines

=== PAGE 234 ===
A useful way to look at Kafka in this context is that it acts as a giant buffer that decou‐
ples the time-sensitivity requirements between producers and consumers. Producers
can write events in real time, while consumers process batches of events, or vice
versa. This also makes it trivial to apply back pressure—Kafka itself applies back pres‐
sure on producers (by delaying acks when needed) since consumption rate is driven
entirely by the consumers.
Reliability
We want to avoid single points of failure and allow for fast and automatic recovery
from all sorts of failure events. Data pipelines are often the way data arrives to
business-critical systems; failure for more than a few seconds can be hugely disrup‐
tive, especially when the timeliness requirement is closer to the few milliseconds end
of the spectrum. Another important consideration for reliability is delivery guaran‐
tees—some systems can afford to lose data, but most of the time there is a require‐
ment for at-least-once delivery, which means every event from the source system will
reach its destination, but sometimes retries will cause duplicates. Often, there is even
a requirement for exactly-once delivery—every event from the source system will
reach the destination with no possibility for loss or duplication.
We discussed Kafka’s availability and reliability guarantees in depth in Chapter 7. As
we discussed, Kafka can provide at-least-once on its own, and exactly-once when
combined with an external data store that has a transactional model or unique keys.
Since many of the end points are data stores that provide the right semantics for
exactly-once delivery, a Kafka-based pipeline can often be implemented as exactly-
once. It is worth highlighting that Kafka’s Connect API makes it easier for connectors
to build an end-to-end exactly-once pipeline by providing an API for integrating with
the external systems when handling offsets. Indeed, many of the available open
source connectors support exactly-once delivery.
High and Varying Throughput
The data pipelines we are building should be able to scale to very high throughputs,
as is often required in modern data systems. Even more importantly, they should be
able to adapt if throughput suddenly increases.
With Kafka acting as a buffer between producers and consumers, we no longer need
to couple consumer throughput to the producer throughput. We no longer need to
implement a complex back-pressure mechanism because if producer throughput
exceeds that of the consumer, data will accumulate in Kafka until the consumer can
catch up. Kafka’s ability to scale by adding consumers or producers independently
allows us to scale either side of the pipeline dynamically and independently to match
the changing requirements.
Considerations When Building Data Pipelines | 205

=== PAGE 235 ===
Kafka is a high-throughput distributed system—capable of processing hundreds of
megabytes per second on even modest clusters—so there is no concern that our pipe‐
line will not scale as demand grows. In addition, the Kafka Connect API focuses on
parallelizing the work and can do this on a single node as well as by scaling out,
depending on system requirements. We’ll describe in the following sections how the
platform allows data sources and sinks to split the work among multiple threads of
execution and use the available CPU resources even when running on a single
machine.
Kafka also supports several types of compression, allowing users and admins to con‐
trol the use of network and storage resources as the throughput requirements
increase.
Data Formats
One of the most important considerations in a data pipeline is reconciling different
data formats and data types. The data types supported vary among different databases
and other storage systems. Y ou may be loading XMLs and relational data into Kafka,
using Avro within Kafka, and then need to convert data to JSON when writing it to
Elasticsearch, to Parquet when writing to HDFS, and to CSV when writing to S3.
Kafka itself and the Connect API are completely agnostic when it comes to data for‐
mats. As we’ve seen in previous chapters, producers and consumers can use any seri‐
alizer to represent data in any format that works for you. Kafka Connect has its own
in-memory objects that include data types and schemas, but as we’ll soon discuss, it
allows for pluggable converters to allow storing these records in any format. This
means that no matter which data format you use for Kafka, it does not restrict your
choice of connectors.
Many sources and sinks have a schema; we can read the schema from the source with
the data, store it, and use it to validate compatibility or even update the schema in the
sink database. A classic example is a data pipeline from MySQL to Snowflake. If
someone added a column in MySQL, a great pipeline will make sure the column gets
added to Snowflake too as we are loading new data into it.
In addition, when writing data from Kafka to external systems, sink connectors are
responsible for the format in which the data is written to the external system. Some
connectors choose to make this format pluggable. For example, the S3 connector
allows a choice between Avro and Parquet formats.
It is not enough to support different types of data. A generic data integration frame‐
work should also handle differences in behavior between various sources and sinks.
For example, Syslog is a source that pushes data, while relational databases require
the framework to pull data out. HDFS is append-only and we can only write data to
it, while most systems allow us to both append data and update existing records.
206 | Chapter 9: Building Data Pipelines

=== PAGE 236 ===
Transformations
Transformations are more controversial than other requirements. There are generally
two approaches to building data pipelines: ETL and ELT. ETL, which stands for
Extract-Transform-Load, means that the data pipeline is responsible for making mod‐
ifications to the data as it passes through. It has the perceived benefit of saving time
and storage because you don’t need to store the data, modify it, and store it again.
Depending on the transformations, this benefit is sometimes real, but sometimes it
shifts the burden of computation and storage to the data pipeline itself, which may or
may not be desirable. The main drawback of this approach is that the transformations
that happen to the data in the pipeline may tie the hands of those who wish to process
