need to know how to deal with this situation. Do we pick one event as the “cor‐
rect” one? If so, we need consistent rules on how to pick one event so applications
on both datacenters will arrive at the same conclusion. Do we decide that both
are true and simply send the user two books and have another department deal
with returns? Amazon used to resolve conflicts that way, but organizations deal‐
ing with stock trades, for example, can’t. The specific method for minimizing
conflicts and handling them when they occur is specific to each use case. It is
important to keep in mind that if you use this architecture, you will have conflicts
and will need to deal with them.
If you find ways to handle the challenges of asynchronous reads and writes to the
same dataset from multiple locations, then this architecture is highly recommended.
It is the most scalable, resilient, flexible, and cost-effective option we are aware of. So,
it is well worth the effort to figure out solutions for avoiding replication cycles, keep‐
ing users mostly in the same datacenter, and handling conflicts when they occur.
Part of the challenge of active-active mirroring, especially with more than two data‐
centers, is that you will need mirroring tasks for each pair of datacenters and each
direction. Many mirroring tools these days can share processes, for example, using
the same process for all mirroring to a destination cluster.
In addition, you will want to avoid loops in which the same event is mirrored back
and forth endlessly. Y ou can do this by giving each “logical topic” a separate topic for
each datacenter and making sure to avoid replicating topics that originated in remote
datacenters. For example, logical topic users will be topic SF.users in one datacenter
and NYC.users in another datacenter. The mirroring processes will mirror topic
SF.users from SF to NYC and topic NYC.users from NYC to SF . As a result, each event
will only be mirrored once, but each datacenter will contain both SF.users and
NYC.users, which means each datacenter will have information for all the users. Con‐
sumers will need to consume events from *.users if they wish to consume all user
events. Another way to think of this setup is to see it as a separate namespace for each
datacenter that contains all the topics for the specific datacenter. In our example, we’ll
Multicluster Architectures | 239

=== PAGE 269 ===
have the NYC and the SF namespaces. Some mirroring tools like MirrorMaker pre‐
vent replication cycles using a similar naming convention.
Record headers introduced in Apache Kafka in version 0.11.0 enable events to be tag‐
ged with their originating datacenter. Header information may also be used to avoid
endless mirroring loops and to allow processing events from different datacenters
separately. Y ou can also implement this feature by using a structured data format for
the record values (Avro is our favorite example) and use this to include tags and
headers in the event itself. However, this does require extra effort when mirroring,
since none of the existing mirroring tools will support your specific header format.
Active-Standby Architecture
In some cases, the only requirement for multiple clusters is to support some kind of
disaster scenario. Perhaps you have two clusters in the same datacenter. Y ou use one
cluster for all the applications, but you want a second cluster that contains (almost)
all the events in the original cluster that you can use if the original cluster is com‐
pletely unavailable. Or perhaps you need geographic resiliency. Y our entire business is
running from a datacenter in California, but you need a second datacenter in Texas
that usually doesn’t do much and that you can use in case of an earthquake. The Texas
datacenter will probably have an inactive (“cold”) copy of all the applications that
admins can start up in case of emergency and that will use the second cluster
(Figure 10-4). This is often a legal requirement rather than something that the busi‐
ness is actually planning on doing—but you still need to be ready.
Figure 10-4. The active-standby architecture
The benefits of this setup are simplicity in setup and the fact that it can be used in
pretty much any use case. Y ou simply install a second cluster and set up a mirroring
process that streams all the events from one cluster to another. No need to worry
about access to data, handling conflicts, and other architectural complexities.
The disadvantages are waste of a good cluster and the fact that failover between Kafka
clusters is, in fact, much harder than it looks. The bottom line is that it is currently
not possible to perform cluster failover in Kafka without either losing data or having
duplicate events. Often both. Y ou can minimize them but never fully eliminate them.
240 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 270 ===
It should be obvious that a cluster that does nothing except wait around for a disaster
is a waste of resources. Since disasters are (or should be) rare, most of the time we are
looking at a cluster of machines that does nothing at all. Some organizations try to
fight this issue by having a DR (disaster recovery) cluster that is much smaller than
the production cluster. But this is a risky decision because you can’t be sure that this
minimally sized cluster will hold up during an emergency. Other organizations prefer
to make the cluster useful during nondisasters by shifting some read-only workloads
to run on the DR cluster, which means they are really running a small version of a
hub-and-spoke architecture with a single spoke.
The more serious issue is, how do you failover to a DR cluster in Apache Kafka?
First, it should go without saying that whichever failover method you choose, your
SRE team must practice it on a regular basis. A plan that works today may stop work‐
ing after an upgrade, or perhaps new use cases make the existing tooling obsolete.
Once a quarter is usually the bare minimum for failover practices. Strong SRE teams
practice far more frequently. Netflix’s famous Chaos Monkey, a service that randomly
causes disasters, is the extreme—any day may become failover practice day.
Now, let’s take a look at what is involved in a failover.
Disaster recovery planning
When planning for disaster recovery, it is important to consider two key metrics.
Recovery time objective (RTO) defines the maximum amount of time before all serv‐
ices must resume after a disaster. Recovery point objective (RPO) defines the maxi‐
mum amount of time for which data may be lost as a result of a disaster. The lower
the RTO, the more important it is to avoid manual processes and application restarts,
since very low RTO can be achieved only with automated failover. Low RPO requires
real-time mirroring with low latencies, and RPO=0 requires synchronous replication.
Data loss and inconsistencies in unplanned failover
Because Kafka’s various mirroring solutions are all asynchronous (we’ll discuss a syn‐
chronous solution in the next section), the DR cluster will not have the latest mes‐
sages from the primary cluster. Y ou should always monitor how far behind the DR
cluster is and never let it fall too far behind. But in a busy system you should expect
the DR cluster to be a few hundred or even a few thousand messages behind the pri‐
mary. If your Kafka cluster handles 1 million messages a second and the lag between
the primary and the DR cluster is 5 milliseconds, your DR cluster will be 5,000 mes‐
sages behind the primary in the best-case scenario. So, prepare for unplanned failover
to include some data loss. In planned failover, you can stop the primary cluster and
wait for the mirroring process to mirror the remaining messages before failing over
applications to the DR cluster, thus avoiding this data loss. When unplanned failover
occurs and you lose a few thousand messages, note that mirroring solutions currently
Multicluster Architectures | 241

=== PAGE 271 ===
don’t support transactions, which means that if some events in multiple topics are
related to each other (e.g., sales and line items), you can have some events arrive to
the DR site in time for the failover and others that don’t. Y our applications will need
to be able to handle a line item without a corresponding sale after you failover to the
DR cluster.
Start offset for applications after failover
One of the challenging tasks in failing over to another cluster is making sure applica‐
tions know where to start consuming data. There are several common approaches.
Some are simple but can cause additional data loss or duplicate processing; others are
more involved but minimize additional data loss and reprocessing. Let’s take a look at
a few:
Auto offset reset
Apache Kafka consumers have a configuration for how to behave when they
don’t have a previously committed offset—they either start reading from the
beginning of the partition or from the end of the partition. If you are not some‐
how mirroring these offsets as part of the DR plan, you need to choose one of
these options. Either start reading from the beginning of available data and han‐
dle large amounts of duplicates or skip to the end and miss an unknown (and
hopefully small) number of events. If your application handles duplicates with no
issues, or missing some data is no big deal, this option is by far the easiest. Simply
skipping to the end of the topic on failover is a popular failover method due to its
simplicity.
Replicate offsets topic
If you are using Kafka consumers from version 0.9.0 and later, the consumers
will commit their offsets to a special topic: __consumer_offsets. If you mirror
this topic to your DR cluster, when consumers start consuming from the DR
cluster, they will be able to pick up their old offsets and continue from where they
left off. It is simple, but there is a long list of caveats involved.
First, there is no guarantee that offsets in the primary cluster will match those in
the secondary cluster. Suppose you only store data in the primary cluster for
three days and you start mirroring a topic a week after it was created. In this case,
the first offset available in the primary cluster may be offset 57,000,000 (older
events were from the first 4 days and were removed already), but the first offset
in the DR cluster will be 0. So, a consumer that tries to read offset 57,000,003
(because that’s its next event to read) from the DR cluster will fail to do this.
Second, even if you started mirroring immediately when the topic was first cre‐
ated and both the primary and the DR topics start with 0, producer retries can
cause offsets to diverge. We discuss an alternative mirroring solution that pre‐
serves offsets between primary and DR clusters at the end of this chapter.
242 | Chapter 10: Cross-Cluster Data Mirroring

=== PAGE 272 ===
Third, even if the offsets were perfectly preserved, because of the lag between pri‐
mary and DR clusters and because mirroring solutions currently don’t support
transactions, an offset committed by a Kafka consumer may arrive ahead or
behind the record with this offset. A consumer that fails over may find commit‐
ted offsets without matching records. Or it may find that the latest committed
offset in the DR site is older than the latest committed offset in the primary site.
See Figure 10-5.
Figure 10-5. A failover causes committed offsets without matching records
In these cases, you need to accept some duplicates if the latest committed offset
in the DR site is older than the one committed on the primary or if the offsets in
the records in the DR site are ahead of the primary due to retries. Y ou will also
need to figure out how to handle cases where the latest committed offset in the
DR site doesn’t have a matching record—do you start processing from the begin‐
ning of the topic or skip to the end?
As you can see, this approach has its limitations. Still, this option lets you failover
to another DR with a reduced number of duplicated or missing events compared
to other approaches while still being simple to implement.
Time-based failover
From version 0.10.0 onward, each message includes a timestamp indicating the
time the message was sent to Kafka. From 0.10.1.0 onward, brokers include an
index and an API for looking up offsets by the timestamp. So, if you failover to
the DR cluster and you know that your trouble started at 4:05 a.m., you can tell
consumers to start processing data from 4:03 a.m. There will be some duplicates
from those two minutes, but it is probably better than other alternatives and the
behavior is much easier to explain to everyone in the company—“We failed back
to 4:03 a.m. ” sounds better than “We failed back to what may or may not be the
Multicluster Architectures | 243

=== PAGE 273 ===
latest committed offsets. ” So, this is often a good compromise. The only question
is: how do we tell consumers to start processing data from 4:03 a.m.?
One option is to bake it right into your app. Have a user-configurable option to
specify the start time for the app. If this is configured, the app can use the new
APIs to fetch offset by time, seek to that time, and start consuming from the right
point, committing offsets as usual.
This option is great if you wrote all your applications this way in advance. But
what if you didn’t? Apache Kafka provides the kafka-consumer-groups tool to
reset offsets based on a range of options, including timestamp-based reset added
in 0.11.0. The consumer group should be stopped while running this type of tool
and started immediately after. For example, the following command resets con‐
sumer offsets for all topics belonging to a particular group to a specific time:
bin/kafka-consumer-groups.sh --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --reset-
offsets --all-topics --group my-group --to-datetime 
2021-03-31T04:03:00.000 --execute
This option is recommended in deployments that need to guarantee a level of
certainty in their failover.
Offset translation
When discussing mirroring the offsets topic, one of the biggest challenges is the
fact that offsets in primary and DR clusters can diverge. In the past, some organi‐
zations chose to use an external data store, such as Apache Cassandra, to store
mapping of offsets from one cluster to another. Whenever an event is produced
to the DR cluster, both offsets are sent to the external data store by the mirroring
