707-829-0104 (fax)
We have a web page for this book, where we list errata, examples, and any additional
information. Y ou can access this page at https://oreil.ly/kafka-tdg2.
Email bookquestions@oreilly.com to comment or ask technical questions about this
book.
For news and information about our books and courses, visit http://oreilly.com.
Find us on Facebook: http://facebook.com/oreilly
Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/oreillymedia
Watch us on Y ouTube: http://youtube.com/oreillymedia
Acknowledgments
We would like to thank the many contributors to Apache Kafka and its ecosystem.
Without their work, this book would not exist. Special thanks to Jay Kreps, Neha Nar‐
khede, and Jun Rao, as well as their colleagues and the leadership at LinkedIn, for
cocreating Kafka and contributing it to the Apache Software Foundation.
xxii | Preface

=== PAGE 28 ===
Many people provided valuable feedback on early versions of the book, and we appre‐
ciate their time and expertise: Apurva Mehta, Arseniy Tashoyan, Dylan Scott, Ewen
Cheslack-Postava, Grant Henke, Ismael Juma, James Cheng, Jason Gustafson, Jeff
Holoman, Joel Koshy, Jonathan Seidman, Jun Rao, Matthias Sax, Michael Noll, Paolo
Castagna, and Jesse Anderson. We also want to thank the many readers who left com‐
ments and feedback via the rough-cuts feedback site.
Many reviewers helped us out and greatly improved the quality of this book, so any
mistakes left are our own.
We’ d like to thank our O’Reilly first-edition editor, Shannon Cutt, for her encourage‐
ment and patience, and for being far more on top of things than we were. Our
second-edition editors, Jess Haberman and Gary O’Brien, kept us on track through
global challenges. Working with O’Reilly is a great experience for an author—the sup‐
port they provide, from tools to book signings, is unparalleled. We are grateful to
everyone involved in making this happen, and we appreciate their choice to work
with us.
And we’ d like to thank our managers and colleagues for enabling and encouraging us
while writing the book.
Gwen wants to thank her husband, Omer Shapira, for his support and patience dur‐
ing the many months spent writing yet another book; her cats, Luke and Lea, for
being cuddly; and her dad, Lior Shapira, for teaching her to always say yes to oppor‐
tunities, even when it seems daunting.
Todd would be nowhere without his wife, Marcy, and daughters, Bella and Kaylee,
behind him all the way. Their support for all the extra time writing, and long hours
running to clear his head, keeps him going.
Rajini would like to thank her husband, Manjunath, and son, Tarun, for their unwav‐
ering support and encouragement, for spending weekends reviewing the early drafts,
and for always being there for her.
Krit shares his love and gratitude with his wife, Cecilia, and two children, Lucas and
Lizabeth. Their love and support make every day a joy, and he wouldn’t be able to
pursue his passions without them. He also wants to thank his mom, Cindy Petty, for
instilling in Krit a desire to always be the best version of himself.
Preface | xxiii

=== PAGE 30 ===
CHAPTER 1
Meet Kafka
Every enterprise is powered by data. We take information in, analyze it, manipulate it,
and create more as output. Every application creates data, whether it is log messages,
metrics, user activity, outgoing messages, or something else. Every byte of data has a
story to tell, something of importance that will inform the next thing to be done. In
order to know what that is, we need to get the data from where it is created to where
it can be analyzed. We see this every day on websites like Amazon, where our clicks
on items of interest to us are turned into recommendations that are shown to us a
little later.
The faster we can do this, the more agile and responsive our organizations can be.
The less effort we spend on moving data around, the more we can focus on the core
business at hand. This is why the pipeline is a critical component in the data-driven
enterprise. How we move the data becomes nearly as important as the data itself.
Any time scientists disagree, it’s because we have insufficient data. Then we can agree
on what kind of data to get; we get the data; and the data solves the problem. Either I’m
right, or you’re right, or we’re both wrong. And we move on.
—Neil deGrasse Tyson
Publish/Subscribe Messaging
Before discussing the specifics of Apache Kafka, it is important for us to understand
the concept of publish/subscribe messaging and why it is a critical component of
data-driven applications. Publish/subscribe (pub/sub) messaging  is a pattern that is
characterized by the sender (publisher) of a piece of data (message) not specifically
directing it to a receiver. Instead, the publisher classifies the message somehow, and
that receiver (subscriber) subscribes to receive certain classes of messages. Pub/sub
1

=== PAGE 31 ===
systems often have a broker, a central point where messages are published, to facili‐
tate this pattern.
How It Starts
Many use cases for publish/subscribe start out the same way: with a simple message
queue or interprocess communication channel. For example, you create an applica‐
tion that needs to send monitoring information somewhere, so you open a direct
connection from your application to an app that displays your metrics on a dash‐
board, and push metrics over that connection, as seen in Figure 1-1.
Figure 1-1. A single, direct metrics publisher
This is a simple solution to a simple problem that works when you are getting started
with monitoring. Before long, you decide you would like to analyze your metrics over
a longer term, and that doesn’t work well in the dashboard. Y ou start a new service
that can receive metrics, store them, and analyze them. In order to support this, you
modify your application to write metrics to both systems. By now you have three
more applications that are generating metrics, and they all make the same connec‐
tions to these two services. Y our coworker thinks it would be a good idea to do active
polling of the services for alerting as well, so you add a server on each of the applica‐
tions to provide metrics on request. After a while, you have more applications that
are using those servers to get individual metrics and use them for various purposes.
This architecture can look much like Figure 1-2 , with connections that are even
harder to trace.
2 | Chapter 1: Meet Kafka

=== PAGE 32 ===
Figure 1-2. Many metrics publishers, using direct connections
The technical debt built up here is obvious, so you decide to pay some of it back. Y ou
set up a single application that receives metrics from all the applications out there,
and provide a server to query those metrics for any system that needs them. This
reduces the complexity of the architecture to something similar to Figure 1-3. Con‐
gratulations, you have built a publish/subscribe messaging system!
Figure 1-3. A metrics publish/subscribe system
Individual Queue Systems
At the same time that you have been waging this war with metrics, one of your
coworkers has been doing similar work with log messages. Another has been working
on tracking user behavior on the frontend website and providing that information to
developers who are working on machine learning, as well as creating some reports for
management. Y ou have all followed a similar path of building out systems that decou‐
ple the publishers of the information from the subscribers to that information.
Figure 1-4 shows such an infrastructure, with three separate pub/sub systems.
Publish/Subscribe Messaging | 3

=== PAGE 33 ===
Figure 1-4. Multiple publish/subscribe systems
This is certainly a lot better than utilizing point-to-point connections (as in
Figure 1-2), but there is a lot of duplication. Y our company is maintaining multiple
systems for queuing data, all of which have their own individual bugs and limitations.
Y ou also know that there will be more use cases for messaging coming soon. What
you would like to have is a single centralized system that allows for publishing generic
types of data, which will grow as your business grows.
Enter Kafka
Apache Kafka was developed as a publish/subscribe messaging system designed to
solve this problem. It is often described as a “distributed commit log” or more
recently as a “distributing streaming platform. ” A filesystem or database commit log is
designed to provide a durable record of all transactions so that they can be replayed
to consistently build the state of a system. Similarly, data within Kafka is stored dura‐
bly, in order, and can be read deterministically. In addition, the data can be dis‐
tributed within the system to provide additional protections against failures, as well
as significant opportunities for scaling performance.
Messages and Batches
The unit of data within Kafka is called a message. If you are approaching Kafka from a
database background, you can think of this as similar to a row or a record. A message
is simply an array of bytes as far as Kafka is concerned, so the data contained within it
does not have a specific format or meaning to Kafka. A message can have an optional
piece of metadata, which is referred to as a key. The key is also a byte array and, as
with the message, has no specific meaning to Kafka. Keys are used when messages are
to be written to partitions in a more controlled manner. The simplest such scheme is
to generate a consistent hash of the key and then select the partition number for that
4 | Chapter 1: Meet Kafka

=== PAGE 34 ===
message by taking the result of the hash modulo the total number of partitions in the
topic. This ensures that messages with the same key are always written to the same
partition (provided that the partition count does not change).
For efficiency, messages are written into Kafka in batches. A batch is just a collection
of messages, all of which are being produced to the same topic and partition. An indi‐
vidual round trip across the network for each message would result in excessive over‐
head, and collecting messages together into a batch reduces this. Of course, this is a
trade-off between latency and throughput: the larger the batches, the more messages
that can be handled per unit of time, but the longer it takes an individual message to
propagate. Batches are also typically compressed, providing more efficient data trans‐
fer and storage at the cost of some processing power. Both keys and batches are dis‐
cussed in more detail in Chapter 3.
Schemas
While messages are opaque byte arrays to Kafka itself, it is recommended that addi‐
tional structure, or schema, be imposed on the message content so that it can be easily
understood. There are many options available for message schema, depending on
your application’s individual needs. Simplistic systems, such as JavaScript Object
Notation (JSON) and Extensible Markup Language (XML), are easy to use and
human readable. However, they lack features such as robust type handling and com‐
patibility between schema versions. Many Kafka developers favor the use of Apache
Avro, which is a serialization framework originally developed for Hadoop. Avro pro‐
vides a compact serialization format, schemas that are separate from the message pay‐
loads and that do not require code to be generated when they change, and strong data
typing and schema evolution, with both backward and forward compatibility.
A consistent data format is important in Kafka, as it allows writing and reading mes‐
sages to be decoupled. When these tasks are tightly coupled, applications that sub‐
scribe to messages must be updated to handle the new data format, in parallel with
the old format. Only then can the applications that publish the messages be updated
to utilize the new format. By using well-defined schemas and storing them in a com‐
mon repository, the messages in Kafka can be understood without coordination.
Schemas and serialization are covered in more detail in Chapter 3.
Topics and Partitions
Messages in Kafka are categorized into topics. The closest analogies for a topic are a
database table or a folder in a filesystem. Topics are additionally broken down into a
number of partitions. Going back to the “commit log” description, a partition is a sin‐
gle log. Messages are written to it in an append-only fashion and are read in order
from beginning to end. Note that as a topic typically has multiple partitions, there is
no guarantee of message ordering across the entire topic, just within a single
Enter Kafka | 5

=== PAGE 35 ===
partition. Figure 1-5 shows a topic with four partitions, with writes being appended
to the end of each one. Partitions are also the way that Kafka provides redundancy
and scalability. Each partition can be hosted on a different server, which means that a
single topic can be scaled horizontally across multiple servers to provide performance
far beyond the ability of a single server. Additionally, partitions can be replicated,
such that different servers will store a copy of the same partition in case one server
fails.
Figure 1-5. Representation of a topic with multiple partitions
The term stream is often used when discussing data within systems like Kafka. Most
often, a stream is considered to be a single topic of data, regardless of the number of
