• If acks is set to all, are there enough in-sync replicas for safely writing the mes‐
sage? (Brokers can be configured to refuse new messages if the number of in-sync
replicas falls below a configurable number; we will discuss this in more detail in
Chapter 7, when we discuss Kafka’s durability and reliability guarantees.)
Then the broker will write the new messages to local disk. On Linux, the messages are
written to the filesystem cache, and there is no guarantee about when they will be
written to disk. Kafka does not wait for the data to get persisted to disk—it relies on
replication for message durability.
Once the message is written to the leader of the partition, the broker examines the
acks configuration: if acks is set to 0 or 1, the broker will respond immediately; if
acks is set to all, the request will be stored in a buffer called purgatory until the
leader observes that the follower replicas replicated the message, at which point a
response is sent to the client.
Fetch Requests
Brokers process fetch requests in a way that is very similar to how produce requests
are handled. The client sends a request, asking the broker to send messages from a list
of topics, partitions, and offsets—something like “Please send me messages starting at
offset 53 in partition 0 of topic Test and messages starting at offset 64 in partition 3 of
topic Test. ” Clients also specify a limit to how much data the broker can return for
each partition. The limit is important because clients need to allocate memory that
will hold the response sent back from the broker. Without this limit, brokers could
send back replies large enough to cause clients to run out of memory.
As we’ve discussed earlier, the request has to arrive to the leaders of the partitions
specified in the request, and the client will make the necessary metadata requests to
make sure it is routing the fetch requests correctly. When the leader receives the
request, it first checks if the request is valid—does this offset even exist for this partic‐
ular partition? If the client is asking for a message that is so old it got deleted from the
partition or an offset that does not exist yet, the broker will respond with an error.
If the offset exists, the broker will read messages from the partition, up to the limit set
by the client in the request, and send the messages to the client. Kafka famously uses a
zero-copy method to send the messages to the clients—this means that Kafka sends
messages from the file (or more likely, the Linux filesystem cache) directly to the
Request Processing | 145

=== PAGE 175 ===
network channel without any intermediate buffers. This is different than most data‐
bases where data is stored in a local cache before being sent to clients. This technique
removes the overhead of copying bytes and managing buffers in memory, and results
in much improved performance.
In addition to setting an upper boundary on the amount of data the broker can
return, clients can also set a lower boundary on the amount of data returned. Setting
the lower boundary to 10K, for example, is the client’s way of telling the broker, “Only
return results once you have at least 10K bytes to send me. ” This is a great way to
reduce CPU and network utilization when clients are reading from topics that are not
seeing much traffic. Instead of the clients sending requests to the brokers every few
milliseconds asking for data and getting very few or no messages in return, the clients
send a request, the broker waits until there is a decent amount of data, and returns
the data, and only then will the client ask for more ( Figure 6-3). The same amount of
data is read overall but with much less back-and-forth and therefore less overhead.
Figure 6-3. Broker delaying response until enough data accumulated
Of course, we wouldn’t want clients to wait forever for the broker to have enough
data. After a while, it makes sense to just take the data that exists and process that
instead of waiting for more. Therefore, clients can also define a timeout to tell the
broker, “If you didn’t satisfy the minimum amount of data to send within x milli‐
seconds, just send what you got. ”
It is interesting to note that not all the data that exists on the leader of the partition is
available for clients to read. Most clients can only read messages that were written to
all in-sync replicas (follower replicas, even though they are consumers, are exempt
from this—otherwise replication would not work). We already discussed that the
leader of the partition knows which messages were replicated to which replica, and
until a message was written to all in-sync replicas, it will not be sent to consumers—
attempts to fetch those messages will result in an empty response rather than an error.
The reason for this behavior is that messages not replicated to enough replicas yet are
considered “unsafe”—if the leader crashes and another replica takes its place, these
messages will no longer exist in Kafka. If we allowed clients to read messages that
only exist on the leader, we could see inconsistent behavior. For example, if a
146 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 176 ===
consumer reads a message and the leader crashed and no other broker contained this
message, the message is gone. No other consumer will be able to read this message,
which can cause inconsistency with the consumer who did read it. Instead, we wait
until all the in-sync replicas get the message and only then allow consumers to read
it (Figure 6-4). This behavior also means that if replication between brokers is slow
for some reason, it will take longer for new messages to arrive to consumers (since
we wait for the messages to replicate first). This delay is limited to
replica.lag.time.max.ms—the amount of time a replica can be delayed in replicat‐
ing new messages while still being considered in sync.
Figure 6-4. Consumers only see messages that were replicated to in-sync replicas
In some cases, a consumer consumes events from a large number of partitions. Send‐
ing the list of all the partitions it is interested in to the broker with every request and
having the broker send all its metadata back can be very inefficient—the set of parti‐
tions rarely changes, their metadata rarely changes, and in many cases there isn’t that
much data to return. To minimize this overhead, Kafka has fetch session cache .
Consumers can attempt to create a cached session that stores the list of partitions
they are consuming from and its metadata. Once a session is created, consumers no
longer need to specify all the partitions in each request and can use incremental fetch
requests instead. Brokers will only include metadata in the response if there were any
changes. The session cache has limited space, and Kafka prioritizes follower replicas
and consumers with a large set of partitions, so in some cases a session will not be
created or will be evicted. In both these cases the broker will return an appropriate
error to the client, and the consumer will transparently resort to full fetch requests
that include all the partition metadata.
Other Requests
We just discussed the most common types of requests used by Kafka clients:
Metadata, Produce, and Fetch. The Kafka protocol currently handles 61 different
request types, and more will be added. Consumers alone use 15 request types to form
groups, coordinate consumption, and allow developers to manage the consumer
groups. There are also large numbers of requests that are related to metadata manage‐
ment and security.
Request Processing | 147

=== PAGE 177 ===
In addition, the same protocol is used to communicate between the Kafka brokers
themselves. Those requests are internal and should not be used by clients. For exam‐
ple, when the controller announces that a partition has a new leader, it sends a Leader
AndIsr request to the new leader (so it will know to start accepting client requests)
and to the followers (so they will know to follow the new leader).
The protocol is ever evolving—as the Kafka community adds more client capabilities,
the protocol evolves to match. For example, in the past, Kafka consumers used
Apache ZooKeeper to keep track of the offsets they receive from Kafka. So when a
consumer is started, it can check ZooKeeper for the last offset that was read from its
partitions and know where to start processing. For various reasons, the community
decided to stop using ZooKeeper for this and instead stored those offsets in a special
Kafka topic. To do this, the contributors had to add several requests to the protocol:
OffsetCommitRequest, OffsetFetchRequest, and ListOffsetsRequest. Now when
an application calls the client API to commit consumer offsets, the client no longer
writes to ZooKeeper; instead, it sends OffsetCommitRequest to Kafka.
Topic creation used to be handled by command-line tools that directly update the list
of topics in ZooKeeper. The Kafka community since added a CreateTopicRequest,
and similar requests for managing Kafka’s metadata. Java applications perform these
metadata operations through Kafka’s AdminClient, documented in depth in Chap‐
ter 5. Since these operations are now part of the Kafka protocol, it allows clients in
languages that don’t have a ZooKeeper library to create topics by asking Kafka brok‐
ers directly.
In addition to evolving the protocol by adding new request types, Kafka developers
sometimes choose to modify existing requests to add some capabilities. For example,
between Kafka 0.9.0 and Kafka 0.10.0, they’ve decided to let clients know who the
current controller is by adding the information to the Metadata response. As a result,
a new version was added to the Metadata request and response. Now, 0.9.0 clients
send Metadata requests of version 0 (because version 1 did not exist in 0.9.0 clients),
and the brokers, whether they are 0.9.0 or 0.10.0, know to respond with a version 0
response, which does not have the controller information. This is fine, because 0.9.0
clients don’t expect the controller information and wouldn’t know how to parse it
anyway. If you have the 0.10.0 client, it will send a version 1 Metadata request, and
0.10.0 brokers will respond with a version 1 response that contains the controller
information, which the 0.10.0 clients can use. If a 0.10.0 client sends a version 1
Metadata request to a 0.9.0 broker, the broker will not know how to handle the newer
version of the request and will respond with an error. This is the reason we recom‐
mend upgrading the brokers before upgrading any of the clients—new brokers know
how to handle old requests, but not vice versa.
In release 0.10.0, the Kafka community added ApiVersionRequest, which allows cli‐
ents to ask the broker which versions of each request are supported and to use the
148 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 178 ===
correct version accordingly. Clients that use this new capability correctly will be able
to talk to older brokers by using a version of the protocol that is supported by the
broker they are connecting to. There is currently ongoing work to add APIs that will
allow clients to discover which features are supported by brokers and to allow brokers
to gate features that exist in a specific version. This improvement was proposed in
KIP-584, and at this time it seems likely to be part of version 3.0.0.
Physical Storage
The basic storage unit of Kafka is a partition replica. Partitions cannot be split
between multiple brokers, and not even between multiple disks on the same broker.
So the size of a partition is limited by the space available on a single mount point. (A
mount point can be a single disk, if JBOD configuration is used, or multiple disks, if
RAID is configured. See Chapter 2.)
When configuring Kafka, the administrator defines a list of directories in which the
partitions will be stored—this is the log.dirs parameter (not to be confused with the
location in which Kafka stores its error log, which is configured in the log4j.properties
file). The usual configuration includes a directory for each mount point that Kafka
will use.
Let’s look at how Kafka uses the available directories to store data. First, we want to
look at how data is allocated to the brokers in the cluster and the directories in the
broker. Then we will look at how the broker manages the files—especially how the
retention guarantees are handled. We will then dive inside the files and look at the file
and index formats. Finally, we will look at log compaction, an advanced feature that
allows you to turn Kafka into a long-term data store, and describe how it works.
Tiered Storage
Starting in late 2018, the Apache Kafka community began collaborating on an ambi‐
tious project to add tiered storage capabilities to Kafka. Work on the project is on-
going, and it is planned for the 3.0 release.
The motivation is fairly straightforward: Kafka is currently used to store large
amounts of data, either due to high throughput or long retention periods. This intro‐
duces the following concerns:
• Y ou are limited in how much data you can store in a partition. As a result, maxi‐
mum retention and partition counts aren’t simply driven by product require‐
ments but also by the limits on physical disk sizes.
• Y our choice of disk and cluster size is driven by storage requirements. Clusters
often end up larger than they would if latency and throughput were the main
considerations, which drives up costs.
Physical Storage | 149

=== PAGE 179 ===
• The time it takes to move partitions from one broker to another, for example,
when expanding or shrinking the cluster, is driven by the size of the partitions.
Large partitions make the cluster less elastic. These days, architectures are
designed toward maximum elasticity, taking advantage of flexible cloud deploy‐
ment options.
In the tiered storage approach, the Kafka cluster is configured with two tiers of stor‐
age: local and remote. The local tier is the same as the current Kafka storage tier—it
uses the local disks on the Kafka brokers to store the log segments. The new remote
tier uses dedicated storage systems, such as HDFS or S3, to store the completed log
segments.
Kafka users can choose to set a separate storage retention policy for each tier. Since
local storage is typically far more expensive than the remote tier, the retention period
for the local tier is usually just a few hours or even shorter, and the retention period
for the remote tier can be much longer—days, or even months.
Local storage is significantly lower latency than the remote storage. This works well
