always get new data in correct order without missing any messages.
When a consumer stops, another consumer needs to know where to pick up the
work—what was the last offset that the previous consumer processed before it stop‐
ped? The “other” consumer can even be the original one after a restart. It doesn’t
really matter—some consumer is going to pick up consuming from that partition,
and it needs to know at which offset to start. This is why consumers need to “commit”
their offsets. For each partition it is consuming, the consumer stores its current loca‐
tion, so it or another consumer will know where to continue after a restart. The main
way consumers can lose messages is when committing offsets for events they’ve read
172 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 202 ===
but haven’t completely processed yet. This way, when another consumer picks up the
work, it will skip those messages and they will never get processed. This is why paying
careful attention to when and how offsets get committed is critical.
Committed Messages Versus Committed Offsets
This is different from a committed message, which, as discussed
previously, is a message that was written to all in-sync replicas and
is available to consumers. Committed offsets are offsets the con‐
sumer sent to Kafka to acknowledge that it received and processed
all the messages in a partition up to this specific offset.
In Chapter 4, we discussed the Consumer API in detail and covered the many meth‐
ods for committing offsets. Here we will cover some important considerations and
choices, but refer back to Chapter 4 for details on using the APIs.
Important Consumer Configuration Properties for Reliable Processing
There are four consumer configuration properties that are important to understand
in order to configure our consumer for a desired reliability behavior.
The first is group.id, as explained in great detail in Chapter 4. The basic idea is that if
two consumers have the same group ID and subscribe to the same topic, each will be
assigned a subset of the partitions in the topic and will therefore only read a subset of
the messages individually (but all the messages will be read by the group as a whole).
If we need a consumer to see, on its own, every single message in the topics it is sub‐
scribed to, it will need a unique group.id.
The second relevant configuration is auto.offset.reset. This parameter controls
what the consumer will do when no offsets were committed (e.g., when the consumer
first starts) or when the consumer asks for offsets that don’t exist in the broker (Chap‐
ter 4 explains how this can happen). There are only two options here. If we choose
earliest, the consumer will start from the beginning of the partition whenever it
doesn’t have a valid offset. This can lead to the consumer processing a lot of messages
twice, but it guarantees to minimize data loss. If we choose latest, the consumer will
start at the end of the partition. This minimizes duplicate processing by the consumer
but almost certainly leads to some messages getting missed by the consumer.
The third relevant configuration is enable.auto.commit. This is a big decision: are
we going to let the consumer commit offsets for us based on schedule, or are we plan‐
ning on committing offsets manually in our code? The main benefit of automatic off‐
set commits is that it’s one less thing to worry about when using consumers in our
application. When we do all the processing of consumed records within the con‐
sumer poll loop, then the automatic offset commit guarantees we will never acciden‐
tally commit an offset that we didn’t process. The main drawbacks of automatic offset
Using Consumers in a Reliable System | 173

=== PAGE 203 ===
commits is that we have no control over the number of duplicate records the applica‐
tion may process because it was stopped after processing some records but before the
automated commit kicked in. When the application has more complex processing,
such as passing records to another thread to process in the background, there is no
choice but to use manual offset commit since the automatic commit may commit off‐
sets for records the consumer has read but perhaps has not processed yet.
The fourth relevant configuration, auto.commit.interval.ms, is tied to the third. If
we choose to commit offsets automatically, this configuration lets us configure how
frequently they will be committed. The default is every five seconds. In general, com‐
mitting more frequently adds overhead but reduces the number of duplicates that can
occur when a consumer stops.
While not directly related to reliable data processing, it is difficult to consider a con‐
sumer reliable if it frequently stops consuming in order to rebalance. Chapter 4
includes advice on how to configure consumers to minimize unnecessary rebalancing
and to minimize pauses while rebalancing.
Explicitly Committing Offsets in Consumers
If we decide we need more control and choose to commit offsets manually, we need
to be concerned about correctness and performance implications.
We will not go over the mechanics and APIs involved in committing offsets here,
since they were covered in great depth in Chapter 4. Instead, we will review impor‐
tant considerations when developing a consumer to handle data reliably. We’ll start
with the simple and perhaps obvious points and move on to more complex patterns.
Always commit offsets after messages were processed
If we do all the processing within the poll loop and don’t maintain state between poll
loops (e.g., for aggregation), this should be easy. We can use the auto-commit config‐
uration, commit offset at the end of the poll loop, or commit offset inside the loop at
a frequency that balances requirements for both overhead and lack of duplicate pro‐
cessing. If there are additional threads or stateful processing involved, this becomes
more complex, especially since the consumer object is not thread safe. In Chapter 4,
we discussed how this can be done and provided references with additional examples.
Commit frequency is a trade-off between performance and number of duplicates
in the event of a crash
Even in the simplest case where we do all the processing within the poll loop and
don’t maintain state between poll loops, we can choose to commit multiple times
within a loop or choose to only commit every several loops. Committing has signifi‐
cant performance overhead. It is similar to produce with acks=all, but all offset
commits of a single consumer group are produced to the same broker, which can
174 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 204 ===
become overloaded. The commit frequency has to balance requirements for perfor‐
mance and lack of duplicates. Committing after every message should only ever be
done on very low-throughput topics.
Commit the right offsets at the right time
A common pitfall when committing in the middle of the poll loop is accidentally
committing the last offset read when polling and not the offset after the last offset
processed. Remember that it is critical to always commit offsets for messages after
they were processed—committing offsets for messages read but not processed can
lead to the consumer missing messages. Chapter 4 has examples that show how to do
just that.
Rebalances
When designing an application, we need to remember that consumer rebalances will
happen, and we need to handle them properly. Chapter 4 contains a few examples.
This usually involves committing offsets before partitions are revoked and cleaning
any state the application maintains when it is assigned new partitions.
Consumers may need to retry
In some cases, after calling poll and processing records, some records are not fully
processed and will need to be processed later. For example, we may try to write
records from Kafka to a database but find that the database is not available at that
moment and we need to retry later. Note that unlike traditional pub/sub messaging
systems, Kafka consumers commit offsets and do not “ack” individual messages. This
means that if we failed to process record #30 and succeeded in processing record #31,
we should not commit offset #31—this would result in marking as processed all the
records up to #31 including #30, which is usually not what we want. Instead, try fol‐
lowing one of the following two patterns.
One option when we encounter a retriable error is to commit the last record we pro‐
cessed successfully. We’ll then store the records that still need to be processed in a
buffer (so the next poll won’t override them), use the consumer pause() method to
ensure that additional polls won’t return data, and keep trying to process the records.
A second option when encountering a retriable error is to write it to a separate topic
and continue. A separate consumer group can be used to handle retries from the
retry topic, or one consumer can subscribe to both the main topic and to the retry
topic but pause the retry topic between retries. This pattern is similar to the dead-
letter-queue system used in many messaging systems.
Using Consumers in a Reliable System | 175

=== PAGE 205 ===
Consumers may need to maintain state
In some applications, we need to maintain state across multiple calls to poll. For
example, if we want to calculate moving average, we’ll want to update the average
after every time we poll Kafka for new messages. If our process is restarted, we will
need to not just start consuming from the last offset, but we’ll also need to recover the
matching moving average. One way to do this is to write the latest accumulated value
to a “results” topic at the same time the application is committing the offset. This
means that when a thread is starting up, it can pick up the latest accumulated value
when it starts and pick up right where it left off. In Chapter 8, we discuss how an
application can write results and commit offsets in a single transaction. In general,
this is a rather complex problem to solve, and we recommend looking at a library like
Kafka Streams or Flink, which provides high-level DSL-like APIs for aggregation,
joins, windows, and other complex analytics.
Validating System Reliability
Once we have gone through the process of figuring out our reliability requirements,
configuring the brokers, configuring the clients, and using the APIs in the best way
for our use case, we can just relax and run everything in production, confident that
no event will ever be missed, right?
We recommend doing some validation first and suggest three layers of validation:
validate the configuration, validate the application, and monitor the application in
production. Let’s look at each of these steps and see what we need to validate and
how.
Validating Configuration
It is easy to test the broker and client configuration in isolation from the application
logic, and it is recommended to do so for two reasons:
• It helps to test if the configuration we’ve chosen can meet our requirements.
• It is a good exercise to reason through the expected behavior of the system.
Kafka includes two important tools to help with this validation. The
org.apache.kafka.tools package includes VerifiableProducer and Verifiable
Consumer classes. These can run as command-line tools or be embedded in an auto‐
mated testing framework.
The idea is that the verifiable producer produces a sequence of messages containing
numbers from 1 to a value we choose. We can configure the verifiable producer the
same way we configure our own producer, setting the right number of acks, retries,
delivery.timeout.ms, and rate at which the messages will be produced. When we
176 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 206 ===
run it, it will print success or error for each message sent to the broker, based on the
acks received. The verifiable consumer performs the complementary check. It con‐
sumes events (usually those produced by the verifiable producer) and prints out the
events it consumed in order. It also prints information regarding commits and
rebalances.
It is important to consider which tests we want to run. For example:
• Leader election: what happens if we kill the leader? How long does it take the
producer and consumer to start working as usual again?
• Controller election: how long does it take the system to resume after a restart of
the controller?
• Rolling restart: can we restart the brokers one by one without losing any
messages?
• Unclean leader election test: what happens when we kill all the replicas for a par‐
tition one by one (to make sure each goes out of sync) and then start a broker
that was out of sync? What needs to happen in order to resume operations? Is
this acceptable?
Then we pick a scenario, start the verifiable producer, start the verifiable consumer,
and run through the scenario—for example, kill the leader of the partition we are
producing data into. If we expected a short pause and then everything to resume nor‐
mally with no message loss, we need to make sure the number of messages produced
by the producer and the number of messages consumed by the consumer match.
The Apache Kafka source repository includes an extensive test suite . Many of the
tests in the suite are based on the same principle and use the verifiable producer and
consumer to make sure rolling upgrades work.
Validating Applications
Once we are sure the broker and client configuration meet our requirements, it is
time to test whether the application provides the guarantees we need. This will check
things like custom error-handling code, offset commits, and rebalance listeners and
similar places where the application logic interacts with Kafka’s client libraries.
Naturally, because application logic can vary considerably, there is only so much
guidance we can provide on how to test it. We recommend integration tests for the
application as part of any development process, and we recommend running tests
under a variety of failure conditions:
