fenced and will not be able to serve client requests. The new fenced state will prevent
cases where a client produces events to a broker that is no longer a leader but is too
out-of-date to be aware that it isn’t a leader.
As part of the migration to the controller quorum, all operations that previously
involved either clients or brokers communicating directly to ZooKeeper will be
routed via the controller. This will allow seamless migration by replacing the control‐
ler without having to change anything on any broker.
Overall design of the new architecture is described in KIP-500. Details on how the
Raft protocol was adapted for Kafka is described in KIP-595. Detailed design on the
new controller quorum, including controller configuration and a new CLI for inter‐
acting with cluster metadata, are found in KIP-631.
Replication
Replication is at the heart of Kafka’s architecture. Indeed, Kafka is often described as
“a distributed, partitioned, replicated commit log service. ” Replication is critical
because it is the way Kafka guarantees availability and durability when individual
nodes inevitably fail.
Replication | 139

=== PAGE 169 ===
As we’ve already discussed, data in Kafka is organized by topics. Each topic is parti‐
tioned, and each partition can have multiple replicas. Those replicas are stored on
brokers, and each broker typically stores hundreds or even thousands of replicas
belonging to different topics and partitions.
There are two types of replicas:
Leader replica
Each partition has a single replica designated as the leader. All produce requests
go through the leader to guarantee consistency. Clients can consume from either
the lead replica or its followers.
Follower replica
All replicas for a partition that are not leaders are called followers.  Unless config‐
ured otherwise, followers don’t serve client requests; their main job is to replicate
messages from the leader and stay up-to-date with the most recent messages the
leader has. If a leader replica for a partition crashes, one of the follower replicas
will be promoted to become the new leader for the partition.
Read from Follower
The ability to read from follower replicas was added in KIP-392. The main goal of this
feature is to decrease network traffic costs by allowing clients to consume from the
nearest in-sync replica rather than from the lead replica. To use this feature, con‐
sumer configuration should include client.rack identifying the location of the cli‐
ent. Broker configuration should include replica. selector.class . This
configuration defaults to LeaderSelector (always consume from leader) but can be
set to RackAwareReplicaSelector, which will select a replica that resides on a broker
with a rack.id configuration that matches client.rack on the client. We can also
implement our own replica selection logic by implementing the ReplicaSelector
interface and using our own implementation instead.
The replication protocol was extended to guarantee that only committed messages
will be available when consuming from a follower replica. This means that we get the
same reliability guarantees we always did, even when fetching from a follower. To
provide this guarantee, all replicas need to know which messages were committed by
the leader. To achieve this, the leader includes the current high-water mark (latest
committed offset) in the data that it sends to the follower. The propagation of the
high-water mark introduces a small delay, which means that data is available for con‐
suming from the leader earlier than it is available on the follower. It is important to
remember this additional delay, since it is tempting to attempt to decrease consumer
latency by consuming from the leader replica.
140 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 170 ===
Another task the leader is responsible for is knowing which of the follower replicas is
up-to-date with the leader. Followers attempt to stay up-to-date by replicating all the
messages from the leader as the messages arrive, but they can fail to stay in sync for
various reasons, such as when network congestion slows down replication or when a
broker crashes and all replicas on that broker start falling behind until we start the
broker and they can start replicating again.
To stay in sync with the leader, the replicas send the leader Fetch requests, the exact
same type of requests that consumers send in order to consume messages. In
response to those requests, the leader sends the messages to the replicas. Those Fetch
requests contain the offset of the message that the replica wants to receive next, and
will always be in order. This means that the leader can know that a replica got all mes‐
sages up to the last messages that the replica fetched, and none of the messages that
came after. By looking at the last offset requested by each replica, the leader can tell
how far behind each replica is. If a replica hasn’t requested a message in more than 10
seconds, or if it has requested messages but hasn’t caught up to the most recent mes‐
sage in more than 10 seconds, the replica is considered out of sync. If a replica fails to
keep up with the leader, it can no longer become the new leader in the event of
failure—after all, it does not contain all the messages.
The inverse of this, replicas that are consistently asking for the latest messages are
called in-sync replicas. Only in-sync replicas are eligible to be elected as partition lead‐
ers in case the existing leader fails.
The amount of time a follower can be inactive or behind before it is considered out of
sync is controlled by the replica.lag.time.max.ms configuration parameter. This
allowed lag has implications on client behavior and data retention during leader elec‐
tion. We discuss this in depth in Chapter 7 when we discuss reliability guarantees.
In addition to the current leader, each partition has a preferred leader—the replica
that was the leader when the topic was originally created. It is preferred because when
partitions are first created, the leaders are balanced among brokers. As a result, we
expect that when the preferred leader is indeed the leader for all partitions in the clus‐
ter, load will be evenly balanced between brokers. By default, Kafka is configured with
auto.leader.rebalance.enable=true, which will check if the preferred leader rep‐
lica is not the current leader but is in sync, and will trigger leader election to make the
preferred leader the current leader.
Replication | 141

=== PAGE 171 ===
Finding the Preferred Leaders
The best way to identify the current preferred leader is by looking
at the list of replicas for a partition. (Y ou can see details of parti‐
tions and replicas in the output of the kafka-topics.sh tool. We’ll
discuss this and other admin tools in Chapter 13.) The first replica
in the list is always the preferred leader. This is true no matter who
is the current leader and even if the replicas were reassigned to dif‐
ferent brokers using the replica reassignment tool. In fact, if you
manually reassign replicas, it is important to remember that the
replica you specify first will be the preferred replica, so make sure
you spread those around different brokers to avoid overloading
some brokers with leaders while other brokers are not handling
their fair share of the work.
Request Processing
Most of what a Kafka broker does is process requests sent to the partition leaders
from clients, partition replicas, and the controller. Kafka has a binary protocol (over
TCP) that specifies the format of the requests and how brokers respond to them—
both when the request is processed successfully or when the broker encounters errors
while processing the request.
The Apache Kafka project includes Java clients that were implemented and main‐
tained by contributors to the Apache Kafka project; there are also clients in other lan‐
guages, such as C, Python, Go, and many others. Y ou can see the full list on the
Apache Kafka website. They all communicate with Kafka brokers using this protocol.
Clients always initiate connections and send requests, and the broker processes the
requests and responds to them. All requests sent to the broker from a specific client
will be processed in the order in which they were received—this guarantee is what
allows Kafka to behave as a message queue and provide ordering guarantees on the
messages it stores.
All requests have a standard header that includes:
• Request type (also called API key)
• Request version (so the brokers can handle clients of different versions and
respond accordingly)
• Correlation ID: a number that uniquely identifies the request and also appears in
the response and in the error logs (the ID is used for troubleshooting)
• Client ID: used to identify the application that sent the request
We will not describe the protocol here because it is described in significant detail in
the Kafka documentation. However, it is helpful to take a look at how requests are
142 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 172 ===
processed by the broker—later, when we discuss how to monitor Kafka and the vari‐
ous configuration options, you will have context about which queues and threads the
metrics and configuration parameters refer to.
For each port the broker listens on, the broker runs an acceptor thread that creates a
connection and hands it over to a processor thread for handling. The number of pro‐
cessor threads (also called network threads) is configurable. The network threads are
responsible for taking requests from client connections, placing them in a request
queue, and picking up responses from a response queue and sending them back to cli‐
ents. At times, responses to clients have to be delays—consumers only receive respon‐
ses when data is available, and admin clients receive a response to a DeleteTopic
request after topic deletion is underway. The delayed responses are held in a purga‐
tory until they can be completed. See Figure 6-1 for a visual of this process.
Figure 6-1. Request processing inside Apache Kafka
Once requests are placed on the request queue, I/O threads (also called request han‐
dler threads) are responsible for picking them up and processing them.  The most
common types of client requests are:
Produce requests
Sent by producers and contain messages the clients write to Kafka brokers
Fetch requests
Sent by consumers and follower replicas when they read messages from Kafka
brokers
Admin requests
Sent by admin clients when performing metadata operations such as creating and
deleting topics
Both produce requests and fetch requests have to be sent to the leader replica of a
partition. If a broker receives a produce request for a specific partition and the leader
for this partition is on a different broker, the client that sent the produce request will
get an error response of “Not a Leader for Partition. ” The same error will occur if a
Request Processing | 143

=== PAGE 173 ===
fetch request for a specific partition arrives at a broker that does not have the leader
for that partition. Kafka’s clients are responsible for sending produce and fetch
requests to the broker that contains the leader for the relevant partition for the
request.
How do the clients know where to send the requests? Kafka clients use another
request type called a metadata request, which includes a list of topics the client is
interested in. The server response specifies which partitions exist in the topics, the
replicas for each partition, and which replica is the leader. Metadata requests can be
sent to any broker because all brokers have a metadata cache that contains this
information.
Clients typically cache this information and use it to direct produce and fetch
requests to the correct broker for each partition. They also need to occasionally
refresh this information (refresh intervals are controlled by the metadata.
max.age.ms configuration parameter) by sending another metadata request so they
know if the topic metadata changed—for example, if a new broker was added or some
replicas were moved to a new broker ( Figure 6-2). In addition, if a client receives the
“Not a Leader” error to one of its requests, it will refresh its metadata before trying to
send the request again, since the error indicates that the client is using outdated infor‐
mation and is sending requests to the wrong broker.
Figure 6-2. Client routing requests
Produce Requests
As we saw in Chapter 3, a configuration parameter called acks is the number of brok‐
ers that need to acknowledge receiving the message before it is considered a success‐
ful write. Producers can be configured to consider messages as “written successfully”
when the message was accepted by just the leader ( acks=1), or by all in-sync replicas
(acks=all), or the moment the message was sent without waiting for the broker to
accept it at all (acks=0).
144 | Chapter 6: Kafka Internals

=== PAGE 174 ===
When the broker that contains the lead replica for a partition receives a produce
request for this partition, it will start by running a few validations:
• Does the user sending the data have write privileges on the topic?
• Is the number of acks specified in the request valid (only 0, 1, and “all” are
allowed)?
