similar to how consumer groups handle the failure of one of the consumers in the
group by assigning partitions to one of the remaining consumers.  Kafka Streams
benefited from improvements in Kafka’s consumer group coordination protocol, such
as static group membership and cooperative rebalancing (described in Chapter 4), as
well as improvements to Kafka’s exactly-once semantics (described in Chapter 8).
While the high-availability methods described here work well in theory, reality intro‐
duces some complexity. One important concern is the speed of recovery. When a
thread has to start processing a task that used to run on a failed thread, it first needs
to recover its saved state—the current aggregation windows, for instance. Often this
is done by rereading internal topics from Kafka in order to warm up Kafka Streams
state stores. During the time it takes to recover the state of a failed task, the stream
processing job will not make progress on that subset of its data, leading to reduced
availability and stale data.
Kafka Streams: Architecture Overview | 415

=== PAGE 445 ===
Therefore, reducing recovery time often boils down to reducing the time it takes to
recover the state. A key technique is to make sure all Kafka Streams topics are config‐
ured for aggressive compaction—by setting a low min.compaction.lag.ms and con‐
figuring the segment size to 100 MB instead of the default 1 GB (recall that the last
segment in each partition, the active segment, is not compacted).
For an even faster recovery, we recommend configuring standby replica—those are
tasks that simply shadow active tasks in a stream processing application and keep the
current state warm on a different server. When failover occurs, they already have the
most current state and are ready to continue processing with almost no downtime.
More information on both scalability and high availability in Kafka Streams is avail‐
able in a a blog post and a Kafka summit talk on the topic.
Stream Processing Use Cases
Throughout this chapter we’ve learned how to do stream processing—from general
concepts and patterns to specific examples in Kafka Streams. At this point it may be
worth looking at the common stream processing use cases. As explained in the begin‐
ning of the chapter, stream processing—or continuous processing—is useful in cases
where we want our events to be processed in quick order rather than wait for hours
until the next batch, but also where we are not expecting a response to arrive in milli‐
seconds. This is all true but also very abstract. Let’s look at a few real scenarios that
can be solved with stream processing:
Customer service
Suppose that we just reserved a room at a large hotel chain, and we expect an
email confirmation and receipt. A few minutes after reserving, when the confir‐
mation still hasn’t arrived, we call customer service to confirm our reservation.
Suppose the customer service desk tells us, “I don’t see the order in our system,
but the batch job that loads the data from the reservation system to the hotels
and the customer service desk only runs once a day, so please call back tomorrow.
Y ou should see the email within 2–3 business days. ” This doesn’t sound like very
good service, yet we’ve had this conversation more than once with a large hotel
chain. What we really want is for every system in the hotel chain to get an update
about a new reservation seconds or minutes after the reservation is made, includ‐
ing the customer service center, the hotel, the system that sends email confirma‐
tions, the website, etc. We also want the customer service center to be able to
immediately pull up all the details about any of our past visits to any of the hotels
in the chain, and the reception desk at the hotel to know that we are a loyal cus‐
tomer so they can give us an upgrade. Building all those systems using stream
processing applications allows them to receive and process updates in near real
time, which makes for a better customer experience. With such a system, the
customer would receive a confirmation email within minutes, their credit card
416 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 446 ===
would be charged on time, the receipt would be sent, and the service desk could
immediately answer their questions regarding the reservation.
Internet of Things
IoT can mean many things—from a home device for adjusting temperature and
ordering refills of laundry detergent, to real-time quality control of pharmaceuti‐
cal manufacturing. A very common use case when applying stream processing to
sensors and devices is to try to predict when preventive maintenance is needed.
This is similar to application monitoring but applied to hardware and is common
in many industries, including manufacturing, telecommunications (identifying
faulty cellphone towers), cable TV (identifying faulty box-top devices before
users complain), and many more. Every case has its own pattern, but the goal is
similar: process events arriving from devices at a large scale and identify patterns
that signal that a device requires maintenance. These patterns can be dropped
packets for a switch, more force required to tighten screws in manufacturing, or
users restarting the box more frequently for cable TV .
Fraud detection
Also known as anomaly detection, this is a very wide field that focuses on catch‐
ing “cheaters” or bad actors in the system. Examples of fraud-detection applica‐
tions include detecting credit card fraud, stock trading fraud, video-game
cheaters, and cybersecurity risks. In all these fields, there are large benefits to
catching fraud as early as possible, so a near real-time system that is capable of
responding to events quickly—perhaps stopping a bad transaction before it is
even approved—is much preferred to a batch job that detects fraud three days
after the fact, when cleanup is much more complicated. This is, again, a problem
of identifying patterns in a large-scale stream of events.
In cybersecurity, there is a method known as beaconing. When the hacker plants
malware inside the organization, it will occasionally reach outside to receive
commands. It can be difficult to detect this activity since it can happen at any
time and any frequency. Typically, networks are well defended against external
attacks but more vulnerable to someone inside the organization reaching out. By
processing the large stream of network connection events and recognizing a
pattern of communication as abnormal (for example, detecting that this host typ‐
ically doesn’t access those specific IPs), the security organization can be alerted
early, before more harm is done.
How to Choose a Stream Processing Framework
When choosing a stream processing framework, it is important to consider the type
of application you are planning on writing. Different types of applications call for dif‐
ferent stream processing solutions:
How to Choose a Stream Processing Framework | 417

=== PAGE 447 ===
Ingest
Where the goal is to get data from one system to another, with some modifica‐
tion to the data to conform to the target system.
Low milliseconds actions
Any application that requires almost immediate response. Some fraud-detection
use cases fall within this bucket.
Asynchronous microservices
These microservices perform a simple action on behalf of a larger business pro‐
cess, such as updating the inventory of a store. These applications may need to
maintain local state caching events as a way to improve performance.
Near real-time data analytics
These streaming applications perform complex aggregations and joins in order to
slice and dice the data and generate interesting, business-relevant insights.
The stream processing system you will choose will depend a lot on the problem you
are solving:
• If you are trying to solve an ingest problem, you should reconsider whether you
want a stream processing system or a simpler ingest-focused system like Kafka
Connect. If you are sure you want a stream processing system, you need to make
sure it has both a good selection of connectors and high-quality connectors for
the systems you are targeting.
• If you are trying to solve a problem that requires low milliseconds actions, you
should also reconsider your choice of streams. Request-response patterns are
often better suited to this task. If you are sure you want a stream processing sys‐
tem, then you need to opt for one that supports an event-by-event low-latency
model rather than one that focuses on microbatches.
• If you are building asynchronous microservices, you need a stream processing
system that integrates well with your message bus of choice (Kafka, hopefully),
has change capture capabilities that easily deliver upstream changes to the
microservice local state, and has the good support of a local store that can serve
as a cache or materialized view of the microservice data.
• If you are building a complex analytics engine, you also need a stream processing
system with great support for a local store—this time, not for maintenance of
local caches and materialized views but rather to support advanced aggregations,
windows, and joins that are otherwise difficult to implement. The APIs should
include support for custom aggregations, window operations, and multiple join
types.
418 | Chapter 14: Stream Processing

=== PAGE 448 ===
In addition to use case–specific considerations, there are a few global considerations
you should take into account:
Operability of the system
Is it easy to deploy to production? Is it easy to monitor and troubleshoot? Is it
easy to scale up and down when needed? Does it integrate well with your existing
infrastructure? What if there is a mistake and you need to reprocess data?
Usability of APIs and ease of debugging
I’ve seen orders-of-magnitude differences in the time it takes to write a high-
quality application among different versions of the same framework. Develop‐
ment time and time-to-market are important, so you need to choose a system
that makes you efficient.
Makes hard things easy
Almost every system will claim they can do advanced windowed aggregations
and maintain local stores, but the question is: do they make it easy for you? Do
they handle gritty details around scale and recovery, or do they supply leaky
abstractions and make you handle most of the mess? The more a system exposes
clean APIs and abstractions and handles the gritty details on its own, the more
productive developers will be.
Community
Most stream processing applications you consider are going to be open source,
and there’s no replacement for a vibrant and active community. Good commu‐
nity means you get new and exciting features on a regular basis, the quality is rel‐
atively good (no one wants to work on bad software), bugs get fixed quickly, and
user questions get answers in a timely manner. It also means that if you get a
strange error and Google it, you will find information about it because other peo‐
ple are using this system and seeing the same issues.
Summary
We started the chapter by explaining stream processing. We gave a formal definition
and discussed the common attributes of the stream processing paradigm. We also
compared it to other programming paradigms.
We then discussed important stream processing concepts. Those concepts were
demonstrated with three example applications written with Kafka Streams.
After going over all the details of these example applications, we gave an overview of
the Kafka Streams architecture and explained how it works under the covers. We
conclude the chapter, and the book, with several examples of stream processing use
cases and advice on how to compare different stream processing frameworks.
Summary | 419

=== PAGE 450 ===
APPENDIX A
Installing Kafka on Other
Operating Systems
Apache Kafka is primarily a Java application and therefore should be able to run on
any system where you are able to install a JRE. It has, however, been optimized for
Linux-based operating systems, so that is where it will perform best. Running on
other operating systems may result in bugs specific to the OS. For this reason, when
using Kafka for development or test purposes on a common desktop OS, it is a good
idea to consider running in a virtual machine that matches your eventual production
environment.
Installing on Windows
As of Microsoft Windows 10, there are now two ways that you can run Kafka. The
traditional way is using a native Java installation. Windows 10 users also have the
option to use the Windows Subsystem for Linux. The latter method is highly prefer‐
red because it provides a much simpler setup that more closely matches the typical
production environment, so we will review it first.
Using Windows Subsystem for Linux
If you are running Windows 10, you can install native Ubuntu support under Win‐
dows using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL). At the time of publication, Micro‐
soft still considers WSL to be an experimental feature. Though it acts similar to a
virtual machine, it does not require the resources of a full VM and provides richer
integration with the Windows OS.
421
