providers, Aiven also supports DigitalOcean and UpCloud.
Title CloudKarafka
URL https://www.cloudkarafka.com
Description CloudKarafka focuses on providing a managed Kafka solution with integrations for popular infrastructure
services (such as DataDog or Splunk). It supports the use of Confluent’s Schema Registry and REST proxy with its
platform, but only the 5.0 version prior to the license changes by Confluent. CloudKarafka provides its services
on both AWS and Google Cloud Platform.
Title Amazon Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (Amazon MSK)
URL https://aws.amazon.com/msk
Description Amazon also provides its own managed Kafka platform, supported only on AWS. Schema support is provided
through integration with AWS Glue, while a REST proxy is not directly supported. Amazon promotes the use of
community tools (such as Cruise Control, Burrow, and Confluent’s REST proxy) but does not directly support
them. As such, MSK is somewhat less integrated than other offers, but can still provide a core Kafka cluster.
Title Azure HDInsight
URL https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/hdinsight
Description Microsoft also provides a managed platform for Kafka in HDInsight, which also supports Hadoop, Spark, and
other big data components. Similar to MSK, HDInsight focuses on the core Kafka cluster, leaving many of the
other components (including a schema registry and REST proxy) up to the user to provide. Some third parties
have provided templates for performing these deployments, but they are not supported by Microsoft.
Title Cloudera
URL https://www.cloudera.com/products/open-source/apache-hadoop/apache-kafka.html
Description Cloudera has been a fixture in the Kafka community since the early days and provides managed Kafka as the
stream data component of its overall Customer Data Platform (CDP) product. CDP focuses on more than just
Kafka, however, and it operates in the public cloud environments as well as providing private options.
428 | Appendix B: Additional Kafka Tools

=== PAGE 458 ===
Cluster Deployment and Management
When running Kafka outside of a managed platform, you will need several things to
assist you with running the cluster properly. This includes help with provisioning and
deployment, balancing data, and visualizing your clusters.
Title Strimzi
URL https://strimzi.io
Description Strimzi provides Kubernetes operators for deploying Kafka clusters to make it easier to set up Kafka in a
Kubernetes environment. It does not provide managed services but instead makes it easy for you to get up and
running in a cloud, whether public or private. It also provides the Strimzi Kafka Bridge, which is a REST proxy
implementation supported under the Apache 2.0 license. At this time, Strimzi does not have support for a
schema registry, due to concerns about licenses.
Title AKHQ
URL https://akhq.io
Description AKHQ is a GUI for managing and interacting with Kafka clusters. It supports configuration management,
including users and ACLs, and provides some support for components like the Schema Registry and Kafka
Connect as well. It also provides tools for working with data in the cluster as an alternative to the console tools.
Title JulieOps
URL https://github.com/kafka-ops/julie
Description JulieOps (formerly Kafka Topology Builder) provides for automated management of topics and ACLs using a
GitOps model. More than viewing the state of the current configuration, JulieOps provides a means for
declarative configuration and change control of topics, schemas, ACLs, and more over time.
Title Cruise Control
URL https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control
Description Cruise Control is LinkedIn’s answer to how to manage hundreds of clusters with thousands of brokers. This tool
began as a solution to automated rebalancing of data in clusters but has evolved to include anomaly detection
and administrative operations, such as adding and removing brokers. For anything more than a testing cluster,
it is a must-have for any Kafka operator.
Title Conduktor
URL https://www.conduktor.io
Description While not open source, Conduktor is a popular desktop tool for managing and interacting with Kafka clusters. It
supports many of the managed platforms (including Confluent, Aiven, and MSK) and many different
components (such as Connect, kSQL, and Streams). It also allows you to interact with data in the clusters, as
opposed to using the console tools. A free license is provided for development use that works with a single
cluster.
Additional Kafka Tools | 429

=== PAGE 459 ===
Monitoring and Data Exploration
A critical part to running Kafka is to ensure that your cluster and your clients are
healthy. Like many applications, Kafka exposes numerous metrics and other teleme‐
try, but making sense of it can be challenging. Many of the larger monitoring plat‐
forms (such as Prometheus) can easily fetch metrics from Kafka brokers and clients.
There are also a number of tools available to assist with making sense of all the data.
Title Xinfra Monitor
URL https://github.com/linkedin/kafka-monitor
Description Xinfra Monitor (formerly Kafka Monitor) was developed by LinkedIn to monitor availability of Kafka clusters and
brokers. It does this by using a set of topics to generate synthetic data through the cluster and measuring
latency, availability, and completeness. It’s a valuable tool for measuring your Kafka deployment’s health
without requiring direct interaction with your clients.
Title Burrow
URL https://github.com/linkedin/burrow
Description Burrow is another tool originally created by LinkedIn, which provides holistic monitoring of consumer lag
within Kafka clusters. It provides a view into the health of the consumers without needing to directly interact
with them. Burrow is actively supported by the community and has its own ecosystem of tools  to connect it
with other components.
Title Kafka Dashboard
URL https://www.datadoghq.com/dashboards/kafka-dashboard
Description For those who use DataDog for monitoring, it provides an excellent Kafka Dashboard to give you a head start on
integrating Kafka clusters into your monitoring stack. It is designed to provide a single-pane view of your Kafka
cluster, simplifying the view of many metrics.
Title Streams Explorer
URL https://github.com/bakdata/streams-explorer
Description Streams Explorer is a tool for visualizing the flow of data through applications and connectors in a Kubernetes
deployment. While it heavily relies on structuring your deployments using either Kafka Streams or Faust
through bakdata’s tools, it can then provide an easily comprehensible view of those applications and their
metrics.
Title kcat
URL https://github.com/edenhill/kafkacat
Description Kcat (formerly kafkacat) is a much-loved alternative to the console producer and consumer that are part of the
core Apache Kafka project. It is small, fast, and written in C, so it does not have JVM overhead. It also supports
limited views into cluster status by showing metadata output for the cluster.
430 | Appendix B: Additional Kafka Tools

=== PAGE 460 ===
Client Libraries
The Apache Kafka project provides client libraries for Java applications, but one lan‐
guage is never enough. There are many implementations of the Kafka client out there,
with popular languages such as Python, Go, and Ruby having several options. In
addition, REST proxies (such as those from Confluent, Strimzi, or Karapace) can
cover a variety of use cases. Here are a few client implementations that have stood the
test of time.
Title librdkafka
URL https://github.com/edenhill/librdkafka
Description librdkafka is a C library implementation of the Kafka client that is regarded as one of the best-performing
libraries available. So good, in fact, that Confluent supports clients for Go, Python, and .NET that it created as
wrappers around librdkafka. It is licensed simply under the two-clause BSD license, which makes it easy to use
in any application.
Title Sarama
URL https://github.com/Shopify/sarama
Description Shopify created the Sarama client as a native Golang implementation. It’s released under the MIT license.
Title kafka-python
URL https://github.com/dpkp/kafka-python
Description kafka-python is another native client implementation, this time in Python. It’s released under the Apache 2.0
license.
Stream Processing
While the Apache Kafka project includes Kafka Streams for building applications, it’s
not the only choice out there for stream processing of data from Kafka.
Title Samza
URL https://samza.apache.org
Description Apache Samza is a framework for stream processing that was specifically designed for Kafka. While it predates
Kafka Streams, it was developed by many of the same people, and as a result the two share many concepts.
However, unlike Kafka Streams, Samza runs on Yarn and provides a full framework for applications to run in.
Title Spark
URL https://spark.apache.org
Description Spark is another Apache project oriented toward batch processing of data. It handles streams by considering
them to be fast microbatches. This means the latency is a little higher, but fault tolerance is simply handled
through reprocessing batches, and Lambda architecture is easy. It also has the benefit of wide community
support.
Additional Kafka Tools | 431

=== PAGE 461 ===
Title Flink
URL https://flink.apache.org
Description Apache Flink is specifically oriented toward stream processing and operates with very low latency. Like Samza,
it supports Yarn but also works with Mesos, Kubernetes, or standalone clusters. It also supports Python and R
with provided high-level APIs.
Title Beam
URL https://beam.apache.org
Description Apache Beam doesn’t provide stream processing directly but instead promotes itself as a unified programming
model for both batch and stream processing. It utilizes platforms like Samza, Spark, and Flink as runners for
components in an overall processing pipeline.
432 | Appendix B: Additional Kafka Tools

=== PAGE 462 ===
Index
A
abortTransaction method, 199
acceptor threads, 143
access control, 267
access control lists (see ACLs)
ACID reliability guarantee, 162
acks parameter, 55, 144, 169
acks=0, 170
acks=1, 170
acks=all, 170, 185, 246
using correct configuration for reliability,
170
AclAuthorizer, 292-295
enabling, 291
ACLs (access control lists)
client ACLs, tool for interacting with, 335
Deny ACLs, 287
enabled for ZooKeeper authorization, 300
for ZooKeeper authorization, 301
group and role ACLs, 296
managing for resources in large organiza‐
tions, 297
for MirrorMaker, 252
topic, migation with MirrorMaker, 250
in ZooKeeper, 292
active controller, 139
active controller count metric, 354
active segment, 153
active-active architecture, 238-240
replication flow, 251
active-standby architecture, 240-245
replication flow config in MirrorMaker, 249
activity tracking, 12, 14
Kafka's features for, 15
ad hoc pipelines, 209
AddPartitionsToTxnRequest, 199
admin requests, 143
AdminClient, 113
advanced admin operations, 127-130
adding partitions to a topic, 127
deleting records from a topic, 128
leader election, 128
reassigning replicas, 129
checking cluster metadata, 127
consumer group management with
exploring consumer groups, 123
modifying consumer groups, 125-126
deleteRecords method, 158
