By default, unclean.leader.election.enable is set to false, which will not allow
out-of-sync replicas to become leaders. This is the safest option since it provides the
best guarantees against data loss. It does mean that in the extreme unavailability sce‐
narios that we described previously, some partitions will remain unavailable until
manually recovered. It is always possible for an administrator to look at the situation,
decide to accept the data loss in order to make the partitions available, and switch this
configuration to true before starting the cluster. Just don’t forget to turn it back to
false after the cluster recovered.
Minimum In-Sync Replicas
Both the topic and the broker-level configuration are called min.insync.replicas.
Broker Configuration | 167

=== PAGE 197 ===
As we’ve seen, there are cases where even though we configured a topic to have three
replicas, we may be left with a single in-sync replica. If this replica becomes unavail‐
able, we may have to choose between availability and consistency. This is never an
easy choice. Note that part of the problem is that, per Kafka reliability guarantees,
data is considered committed when it is written to all in-sync replicas, even when all
means just one replica and the data could be lost if that replica is unavailable.
When we want to be sure that committed data is written to more than one replica, we
need to set the minimum number of in-sync replicas to a higher value. If a topic has
three replicas and we set min.insync.replicas to 2, then producers can only write to
a partition in the topic if at least two out of the three replicas are in sync.
When all three replicas are in sync, everything proceeds normally. This is also true if
one of the replicas becomes unavailable. However, if two out of three replicas are not
available, the brokers will no longer accept produce requests. Instead, producers that
attempt to send data will receive NotEnoughReplicasException. Consumers can con‐
tinue reading existing data. In effect, with this configuration, a single in-sync replica
becomes read-only. This prevents the undesirable situation where data is produced
and consumed, only to disappear when unclean election occurs. In order to recover
from this read-only situation, we must make one of the two unavailable partitions
available again (maybe restart the broker) and wait for it to catch up and get in sync.
Keeping Replicas In Sync
As mentioned earlier, out-of-sync replicas decrease the overall reliability, so it is
important to avoid these as much as possible. We also explained that a replica can
become out of sync in one of two ways: either it loses connectivity to ZooKeeper or it
fails to keep up with the leader and builds up a replication lag. Kafka has two broker
configurations that control the sensitivity of the cluster to these two conditions.
zookeeper.session.timeout.ms is the time interval during which a Kafka broker
can stop sending heartbeats to ZooKeeper without ZooKeeper considering the broker
dead and removing it from the cluster. In version 2.5.0, this value was increased from
6 seconds to 18 seconds, in order to increase the stability of Kafka clusters in cloud
environments where network latencies show higher variance. In general, we want this
time to be high enough to avoid random flapping caused by garbage collection or
network conditions, but still low enough to make sure brokers that are actually frozen
will be detected in a timely manner.
If a replica did not fetch from the leader or did not catch up to the latest messages on
the leader for longer than replica.lag.time.max.ms, it will become out of sync. This
was increased from 10 seconds to 30 seconds in release 2.5.0 to improve resilience of
the cluster and avoid unnecessary flapping. Note that this higher value also impacts
maximum latency for the consumer—with the higher value it can take up to 30
168 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 198 ===
seconds until a message arrives to all replicas and the consumers are allowed to con‐
sume it.
Persisting to Disk
We’ve mentioned a few times that Kafka will acknowledge messages that were not
persisted to disk, depending just on the number of replicas that received the message. 
Kafka will flush messages to disk when rotating segments (by default 1 GB in size)
and before restarts but will otherwise rely on Linux page cache to flush messages
when it becomes full. The idea behind this is that having three machines in separate
racks or availability zones, each with a copy of the data, is safer than writing the mes‐
sages to disk on the leader, because simultaneous failures on two different racks or
zones are so unlikely. However, it is possible to configure the brokers to persist mes‐
sages to disk more frequently. The configuration parameter flush.messages allows
us to control the maximum number of messages not synced to disk, and flush.ms
allows us to control the frequency of syncing to disk. Before using this feature, it is
worth reading how fsync impacts Kafka’s throughput and how to mitigate its
drawbacks.
Using Producers in a Reliable System
Even if we configure the brokers in the most reliable configuration possible, the sys‐
tem as a whole can still potentially lose data if we don’t configure the producers to be
reliable as well.
Here are two example scenarios to demonstrate this:
• We configured the brokers with three replicas, and unclean leader election is dis‐
abled. So we should never lose a single message that was committed to the Kafka
cluster. However, we configured the producer to send messages with acks=1. We
sent a message from the producer, and it was written to the leader but not yet to
the in-sync replicas. The leader sent back a response to the producer saying,
“Message was written successfully” and immediately crashes before the data was
replicated to the other replicas. The other replicas are still considered in sync
(remember that it takes a while before we declare a replica out of sync), and one
of them will become the leader. Since the message was not written to the replicas,
it was lost. But the producing application thinks it was written successfully. The
system is consistent because no consumer saw the message (it was never commit‐
ted because the replicas never got it), but from the producer perspective, a mes‐
sage was lost.
• We configured the brokers with three replicas, and unclean leader election is dis‐
abled. We learned from our mistakes and started producing messages with
acks=all. Suppose that we are attempting to write a message to Kafka, but the
Using Producers in a Reliable System | 169

=== PAGE 199 ===
leader for the partition we are writing to just crashed and a new one is still get‐
ting elected. Kafka will respond with “Leader not Available. ” At this point, if the
producer doesn’t handle the error correctly and doesn’t retry until the write is
successful, the message may be lost. Once again, this is not a broker reliability
issue because the broker never got the message; and it is not a consistency issue
because the consumers never got the message either. But if producers don’t han‐
dle errors correctly, they may cause message loss.
As the examples show, there are two important things that everyone who writes appli‐
cations that produce to Kafka must pay attention to:
• Use the correct acks configuration to match reliability requirements
• Handle errors correctly both in configuration and in code
We discussed producer configuration in depth in Chapter 3 , but let’s go over the
important points again.
Send Acknowledgments
Producers can choose between three different acknowledgment modes:
acks=0
This means that a message is considered to be written successfully to Kafka if the
producer managed to send it over the network. We will still get errors if the
object we are sending cannot be serialized or if the network card failed, but we
won’t get any error if the partition is offline, a leader election is in progress, or
even if the entire Kafka cluster is unavailable. Running with acks=0 has low pro‐
duce latency (which is why we see a lot of benchmarks with this configuration),
but it will not improve end-to-end latency (remember that consumers will not
see messages until they are replicated to all available replicas).
acks=1
This means that the leader will send either an acknowledgment or an error the
moment it gets the message and writes it to the partition data file (but not neces‐
sarily synced to disk). We can lose data if the leader shuts down or crashes and
some messages that were successfully written to the leader and acknowledged
were not replicated to the followers before the crash. With this configuration, it is
also possible to write to the leader faster than it can replicate messages and end
up with under-replicated partitions, since the leader will acknowledge messages
from the producer before replicating them.
acks=all
This means that the leader will wait until all in-sync replicas get the message
before sending back an acknowledgment or an error. In conjunction with the
170 | Chapter 7: Reliable Data Delivery

=== PAGE 200 ===
min.insync.replicas configuration on the broker, this lets us control how many
replicas get the message before it is acknowledged. This is the safest option—the
producer won’t stop trying to send the message before it is fully committed. This
is also the option with the longest producer latency—the producer waits for all
in-sync replicas to get all the messages before it can mark the message batch as
“done” and carry on.
Configuring Producer Retries
There are two parts to handling errors in the producer: the errors that the producers
handle automatically for us and the errors that we, as developers using the producer
library, must handle.
The producer can handle retriable errors. When the producer sends messages to a
broker, the broker can return either a success or an error code. Those error codes
belong to two categories—errors that can be resolved after retrying and errors that
won’t be resolved. For example, if the broker returns the error code
LEADER_NOT_AVAILABLE, the producer can try sending the message again—maybe a
new broker was elected and the second attempt will succeed. This means that
LEADER_NOT_AVAILABLE is a retriable error. On the other hand, if a broker returns an
INVALID_CONFIG exception, trying the same message again will not change the con‐
figuration. This is an example of a nonretriable error.
In general, when our goal is to never lose a message, our best approach is to configure
the producer to keep trying to send the messages when it encounters a retriable error.
And the best approach to retries, as recommended in Chapter 3, is to leave the num‐
ber of retries at its current default ( MAX_INT, or effectively infinite) and use
delivery.timout.ms to configure the maximum amount of time we are willing to
wait until giving up on sending a message—the producer will retry sending the mes‐
sage as many times as possible within this time interval.
Retrying to send a failed message includes a risk that both messages were successfully
written to the broker, leading to duplicates. Retries and careful error handling can
guarantee that each message will be stored at least once , but not exactly once. Using
enable.idempotence=true will cause the producer to include additional information
in its records, which brokers will use to skip duplicate messages caused by retries. In
Chapter 8, we discuss in detail how and when this works.
Additional Error Handling
Using the built-in producer retries is an easy way to correctly handle a large variety of
errors without loss of messages, but as developers, we must still be able to handle
other types of errors. These include:
Using Producers in a Reliable System | 171

=== PAGE 201 ===
• Nonretriable broker errors, such as errors regarding message size, authorization
errors, etc.
• Errors that occur before the message was sent to the broker—for example, seriali‐
zation errors
• Errors that occur when the producer exhausted all retry attempts or when the
available memory used by the producer is filled to the limit due to using all of it
to store messages while retrying
• Timeouts
In Chapter 3  we discussed how to write error handlers for both sync and async
message-sending methods. The content of these error handlers is specific to the appli‐
cation and its goals—do we throw away “bad messages”? Log errors? Stop reading
messages from the source system? Apply back pressure to the source system to stop
sending messages for a while? Store these messages in a directory on the local disk?
These decisions depend on the architecture and the product requirements. Just note
that if all the error handler is doing is retrying to send the message, then we’ll be bet‐
ter off relying on the producer’s retry functionality.
Using Consumers in a Reliable System
Now that we have learned how to produce data while taking Kafka’s reliability guar‐
antees into account, it is time to see how to consume data.
As we saw in the first part of this chapter, data is only available to consumers after it
has been committed to Kafka—meaning it was written to all in-sync replicas. This
means that consumers get data that is guaranteed to be consistent. The only thing
consumers are left to do is make sure they keep track of which messages they’ve read
and which messages they haven’t. This is key to not losing messages while consuming
them.
When reading data from a partition, a consumer is fetching a batch of messages,
checking the last offset in the batch, and then requesting another batch of messages
starting from the last offset received. This guarantees that a Kafka consumer will
